[Music]
We should not be surprised that we are
seeing volatility. You still do have a
sort of K-shaped market. In the near
term,
>> caution is warranted.
>> It's early to abandon any bullish call.
>> We own what we own. If the market goes
down and these stocks go down, we're
going to buy more. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoerdern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, the Supreme Court pushing
back. America's top court appearing
skeptical of the president's trade
policy. As dysfunction in Washington is
leading to reduced air cargo capacity.
US companies announcing the most job
cuts for any October in more than two
decades.
>> This is the Challenger, Craig Christmas
data that came out earlier this morning
that showed a huge surge in the
announced potential layoffs that
companies have planned. A real question
here. Are these just idiosyncratic
moments when you look at sort of the
data warehousing and some of the
technology-related sectors that these
areas
that were these layoffs are
concentrated. How many idiosyncratic
stories make a theme? And I think that
increasingly is the question.
>> I've got to highlight the counterpoints
in the last 24 hours as well. ADP
improved. ISM services, we talked a lot
about that ahead of time yesterday. That
number was much, much better than
expected. And you take the data on a
whole this week, you'd argue that things
have stabilized, maybe even picked up
just a little bit.
>> This is the conundrum. Things have
stabilized. Economically, yes, you could
argue that they're even reaccelerating.
But what everyone keeps saying is it
comes without job creation. Is it
because of the immigration story? Even
within the ISM services, planned hiring
speaks to a potential even contraction
in employment even as prices paid goes
up, even as you do see orders really
pick up. So there's a question here. Can
you get a jobless recovery and how does
the Fed deal with that? How do frankly
investors deal with that when they're
facing off with companies?
>> We need to talk about trade policy as
well. Quite a hearing in the last 24
hours. Justice Barrett with this to say.
So is it your contention that every
country needed to be tariffed because of
threats to the defense and industrial
base? I mean Spain, France, question
mark? Look, there was a lot of pushback.
Questions around what else this sets a
precedent for for our future presidents
to do if they do if presidents do have
the power that a lot of justices were
arguing really relies on Congress. They
talked about this being a tax that is
not what the administration wants them
to be talking about. It points to what
is the pathway to remediation. If the
Supreme Court does overturn this, how
wholesale could they overturn this? And
what is President Trump's response?
Right now, the idea that conservative
justices are pushing back just as hard
as some of the more liberal wing of the
court really raises questions for a lot
of people in the market.
>> The market move at a stock level, I
think spoke for itself yesterday. Three
names for me, Lulu, Macy's, Mattel
rising 4% plus in yesterday's session
kind of spoke to the mood of the moment
down at Washington, D.C. A sense that
maybe some of these would be overturned
and the retail sectors that were most
affected by some of the tariffs in
particular in Southeast Asia could get
some sort of benefit. But again, that's
also a question. Is this going forward?
Is this looking back? Do they get that
money back? How do they deal with
suppliers? How does this deal with
domestic policy, international policy? I
mean there's so many questions. More
questions than answers that come from
this. The refunds could be an absolute
mess. It's a total mess. We'll get into
that in a moment. If you're just joining
us, welcome to the program. Equity
futures looking for a bounce here,
trying to add to some gains yesterday.
Equity futures up by not even a tenth of
1%. Coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with Seema Shah, Principal Asset
Management, as stocks look to find a
firmer footing. The former Trump White
House trade official, Kate Kalutvich,
joins us with US tariff policy hanging
in the balance. And Maureen O'Connor of
Wells Fargo as big tech takes on record
debt to fund the AI arms race. We begin
this hour with our top story. Layoffs in
October surging to a more than
two-decade high. Bloomberg's Mike McKee
joins us now for more. Good morning,
Michael. Good morning, John. Well,
Challenger, Gray & Christmas puts out
their challenge their job cut
announcements every month at 7:30 in the
morning, but today came out about 4:00
a.m. Challenger releasing them early
because why not start everybody's day
out with some bad news. 153,000
and 74 job cuts in October. That's the
highest for that month since 2003.
And as you can see, the numbers are up
significantly over the last year or so.
And the 2025 total is 65% higher than it
was a year ago. Challenger blaming AI,
softening economy. They also blamed
those job cuts. There are some caveats
though that we need to point out when
you start talking about Challenger.
First of all, they're compiled from
company announcement plans. Companies
don't always follow through. And they
give workers in many cases a long
runway. Apple, for example,
cutting jobs, giving people several
months. And the same with Amazon. They
gave 90 days notice. Some cuts come
through attrition rather than just
firing people. And the cuts are
worldwide, not just in the US. So it
doesn't necessarily mean as you were
talking about at the top of the show
that we're going to see this many people
lose their jobs, but it does suggest the
labor market is softening significantly.
And it raises those questions about what
the Fed does in December. We're not
going to settle that debate anytime
soon. Mike McKee's going to join us
later on in the program to break this
down and talk about that Fed debate.
This bond market whipsawed day to day.
This morning, yields are lower by a few
basis points. Yesterday, they were
higher. We had decent data. And dare I
say maybe the Supreme Court debate was
more instrumental in the moves we saw in
the bond market than anything else was.
The theory here is that if the United
States cannot collect some of the
tariff-related income or has to give it
back, what does that do for the deficit
picture? And the fact that that offsets
some of the savings that came from the
additional spending in the bills that
were passed earlier this year. A real
question here about whether this is
going to be a bond market issue and
liability come the end of the year.
>> 4:13 on 10 so far this morning. Here's
the view on Wall Street. Seema Shah of
Principal Asset Management writing,
"While there are threats to the risk-on
stance, particularly amidst lofty
valuations, fundamentals continue to
underpin markets." Seema joins us now
for more. Seema, welcome to the program.
Meta last week, Palantir, AMD, and now
Qualcomm all reporting fairly decent
numbers for most of them. And this
equity market has pushed back. What's
the signal you take from that?
Hi, John. Thanks for having me on. Um
yeah, it's been really interesting this
earnings season to see how the market is
is punching companies even as they're
continuing to live deliver. And I think
that speaks to a lot of skepticism
within the market, which is certainly
starting to really gain momentum, I
think, within the last few weeks as
well.
Uh probably around the size, you know,
the kind of the size of numbers that
we're seeing with regards to the AI
CAPEX.
Uh hope that these companies are really
going to continue to promise on
some of the productivity gains that they
have. So
I think the the the jury is out. What
we're trying to do is look through some
of the noise, some of the fears that may
be around. And thinking, "Well, look
look at the earning story. Look at the
macro backdrop. There are concerns,
absolutely.
Uh but in terms of the data that we're
getting through from companies, we still
have some
uh confidence that this economy can
continue to perform and companies across
a broad spectrum can also continue to
perform, too." Well, Seema, let's talk
about some of the good news in the last
day or so. ISM services, a nice upside
surprise. Do you think that's a sign of
things to come in our future?
I'm not sure it's necessarily
a sign of things to come. And when we're
set we're taking a step back, we're
looking at the economy, putting all the
data as much as of it as we have,
what we see is an economy which is
likely to slow down from its current
pace. It's probably going to come down
sometime during 2026 closer to a trend
level. Now, that is okay. It's not
wonderful, but it is still an economy
that is growing. And so earnings can
continue to to do well. The more
concerning picture, of course, which we
have to take more notice of and of
course the Fed is going to be debating
so much is really around that labor
market picture. So when we're talking
about our forecast, we are building in
the assumption that the Fed is going to
continue to deliver some rate cuts in
order to make sure that whatever
weaknesses there is in the labor market
aren't allowed to accelerate. So a lot
of it actually resting on this
assumption that there continues to be
some support coming in from policy
makers. Seema, this really goes to the
contradiction of the moment where you're
talking about maybe a slowing in the
economy. Some people are talking about a
reacceleration in the economy, but not
necessarily in the labor picture. In
other words, a reacceleration of profits
from companies that are getting nimble
with using AI and other efficiencies of
scale, while people are not finding jobs
as easily and wages are not keeping
pace. As an investor, does that make you
more reluctant to invest in the United
States? Or frankly, does it give you
confidence in the corporate dynamism
story of the United States regardless of
what happens to the underlying jobs
economy?
It it's such an important question,
Lisa. And I think that question is
coming about sooner than people have
been anticipating. I mean, ultimately,
we're in this environment where the
structural impact of the AI both on
labor, on wages, and then general
growth, and essentially the kind of the
bifurcation between what's happening in
the labor market and earnings growth.
And it's making it really difficult to
try and decipher what the new structure
of the economy is, what the impact is,
is, and also how the Fed is going to be
responding.
In this backdrop, we have to go with, I
think,
clearly diversification, but still this
focus on the US because it continues to
be the most robust,
you know, the the companies with the the
strongest balance sheets continue to
play out in the US. But also at the same
time thinking about where else can we
deploy
to ensure that we are maintaining some
kind of diversification
against the risk that things do start to
turn a little bit more negative both
from a cyclical side and of course on a
structural side, too. So in other words,
the sell America trade is over. It might
be diversify around the edge edges, but
the US still is the place that is
supposed to be the growth engine for the
world. Is that correct?
That is exactly right. So we continue to
we have skepticism, some concerns, I
think, healthy skepticism around the AI
story and how these companies are
ultimately going to deliver, but we do
believe in the
Uh if you believe in that, then really
you should still be focused on the US.
Uh other countries around the world,
specifically Europe for example, just
doesn't have the same kind of prowess.
Now, at the same time, because of those
concerns around AI, having some
diversification in companies across
Europe, ones that maybe can leverage uh
on some of the structural benefits that
could come out from AI still, but the
other parts of the cyclical story is
important. And then of course, across
asset classes. So, it's not just about
regions, but it's about asset classes.
Equity, fixed income, infrastructure.
Some areas that you can feel some safety
in this in this kind of environment.
>> Seema, can we finish on trade? Some key
players on the Supreme Court sounding
deeply skeptical of the president's
broad-sweeping trade effort. It remains
now, I think, a consensus view coming
into Thursday that these tariffs won't
last. They'll be struck down by the
Supreme Court. How well priced is that
story? How well understood is it?
I'm not sure it's necessarily very well
understood, but I think what the market
is is assuming here is that even if
they're struck down, the Trump
administration will find alternative
avenues. So, we do for example think
that trade tariffs are ultimately going
to rise a little bit further from here,
even in the event that they're struck
off.
I think the bigger question mark is
something you've been alluding to just
earlier, which is what is the near-term
impact in terms of revenues from the
fiscal story, and what is the impact on
the bond market going to be? I think
that's going to be really the focus
for the market over the coming months
with regards to that trade story. Seema,
thank you. Seema Shah, Principal Asset
Management with the latest on trade
there. I think that's the difficulty for
the hearing at the moment for the Trump
administration. If you keep touting the
revenue, you're undermining the national
security rationale, which is the broader
conversation was taking place yesterday.
It really raises the question, is this
an economic stopgap measure, or is this
something that really is an emergency
act that does make the president have to
do this? It also highlights how
important it is, and the justices are
aware of this, what kind of remediation
happens. And you were talking to this,
do companies get payments back from the
government with interest? Is there some
sort of process, and can the US
government come up with another regime
of tariffs to replace it
in between some of some of these
deliberations?
>> You're better at this than I am. Do you
really think the Supreme Court would
prescribe some kind of refunding
process?
Or are they going to leave that to other
people to come up with? They'll leave
that to other people to come up with.
They're not in the business of that. At
the same time, it's going to affect how
much they wholesale overturn this,
right? It's not clear that they're going
to absolutely repudiate the tariffs.
They could repudiate sections, send it
back to lower courts, throw some more
sand in the gears while this continues
to grind on. That's sort of the reason
why people having a hard time pricing
this. Just going to reintroduce all that
volatility from earlier this year. Just
can't move on. Equities at the moment on
the S&P attempted to move on, just about
positive on the session so far. With an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg Brief. Joining us now, Yahara
Arnold. Hi Yahara. Hi John. As you all
were just discussing, the Supreme Court
cast fresh uncertainty over President
Donald Trump's tariffs, suggesting he
may have overstepped his authority. In a
nearly 3-hour hearing, the court hinted
it was ready to put significant limits
on the president's signature economic
policy. Chief Justice John Roberts
called the tariffs an imposition of
taxes on Americans.
Meanwhile, Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang says
China is going to win the AI race. In an
interview with the Financial Times,
Huang cited Beijing's lower energy costs
and looser regulations. His remarks come
after President Trump upheld a ban on
Nvidia selling its most advanced chips
to Chinese customers.
And Apple is said to be nearing a deal
with Google to overhaul its Siri voice
assistant. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the companies are finalizing
an agreement that would see Apple pay
roughly $1 billion a year for access to
Google's technology. The iPhone maker
wants to rebuild Siri's underlying tech
and roll out new features next year.
That's your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yahara later this hour. Up next on
the program, tariffs saving the world.
If I didn't have tariffs, we wouldn't we
were right now the entire world would be
in a depression.
Because, you know, that wasn't a threat
against us. That was a threat against
the entire world. I did this for the
world. We'll get some thoughts on that
in just a moment. The former White House
trade official Clete Willems joins us
next from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[Music]
Better economic data in the last 24
hours together with a skeptical Supreme
Court unlocking some gains in the equity
market. Those gains continue just about
on the S&P up by a tenth of 1% on the
Nasdaq 100, just about unchanged.
Tariffs in focus down in Washington, DC.
Under Savannah's this morning, tariffs
saving the world.
I heard the court case went well. It
would be devastating for our country if
we lost that. Devastating. I think it's
one of the most important, maybe the
most, but one of the most important
cases in the history of our country. If
I didn't have tariffs, we wouldn't we
were right now the entire world would be
in a depression.
Because, you know, that wasn't a threat
against us. That was a threat against
the entire world. I did this for the
world. European officials watching this,
Canadians waking up. I wonder what they
think about that this morning, Bramo.
They want to say, "Thank you, Mr.
President." That's I'm sure what they
want to say.
>> Thanks for those tariffs. They saved us.
It's the latest this morning. The
Supreme Court appearing skeptical of
President Donald Trump's tariff policy.
Several judges questioning his use of
emergency powers. Bloomberg's Mike
Shepherd joins us now for more. Shep,
that wasn't a good day for the White
House.
No, it sure wasn't. Tariffs have been a
pillar of the president's strategy for
remaking the way the US engages with the
global economy, and he is facing the
prospect that the Supreme Court could be
knocking it down altogether. Now, he
does have some other tools in his
arsenal when it comes to tariffs. He
could resort to other mechanisms under
US law, but this emergency authority
that he was invoking under a 1977 law
that doesn't even mention the word
tariffs was something that provided the
immediacy that he had wanted. He really
wanted that shock and awe that we saw
back in April on so-called liberation
day, that he would be able to send a
message to the world. So, instead, as
they look for a plan B in the event of
an eventual loss at the Supreme Court,
they are facing potentially
driven efforts through Section 232.
That's the process, John, that they are
using now to impose those sectoral
tariffs on autos, on steel, and perhaps
soon on semiconductors, too. And this is
the kind of thing that
for Trump, it doesn't work as well
politically. It's harder for him to
translate that into a resounding message
the way he did back in April. And it
also raises the question, as you and
Lisa just noted now, what do US trading
partners think? Are they going to use
this as some leverage to maybe claw back
a little bit of what they had given to
the United States during trade
negotiations over the past several
months. And it's especially important
when it comes to China. The relationship
with China has been bitterly fought,
especially this year, when it comes to
trade, when it comes to those questions
of rare earths and technology export
controls, and how will Beijing react
once it sees a possible loss in the
Supreme Court, and will it change their
equation in terms of what they're
willing to give back in those talks,
which remain ongoing, and we will see
unfold over the coming year, John. Shep,
they've got the tools to deal with
China. I think we saw that in the
president's first term. I think what's
more interesting about this is everybody
else, the Europeans. Justice Barrett
yesterday, Spain, France, really? That
was basically the conversation. Do they
need to tighten up how they talk about
tariffs? Because they've gone around
touting the generated revenue they've
seen over the year so far. And the
argument yesterday was just ignore that.
That revenue is just incidental. That's
not what this is about. This is about
national security.
Well, you're right, John. And this whole
question of what are the tariffs for
came up during the arguments yesterday.
We heard the Solicitor General of the
United States, John Sauer, talk about
tariffs as a regulatory mechanism. And
yet, we heard again and again the
justices come back at the question of
revenue. Is this not being used for
revenue purposes as well? And shouldn't
Congress, therefore, which has the power
of the purse, step in and exercise that
authority rather than the president. And
this is something that we have even
heard administration officials outside
the Supreme Court courtroom invoke. They
have talked about how tariffs are
bringing in revenue, and how they will
help close the deficit, and how they may
make up for whatever revenue may be lost
as a result of the tax cuts. And we did
see about a 2% reduction in the US
deficit
from
from the tariffs earlier this year. So,
this is something worth to watch for,
John, is how they play the messaging
going forward, and how they move toward
a plan B here. Hey Shep, thank you. So,
we'll catch up with you again later on
this morning. The former White House
trade official Clete Willems has this to
say, irrespective of the ruling, there
are other mechanisms at the president's
disposal that can be leveraged to enact
his trade and tariff policy. Kate joins
us now for more. Kate, welcome back. I
just love your initial reaction to what
we heard yesterday from some key players
on the Supreme Court.
Well, it's hard to ignore that the
justices seem poised to to rule against
the president in this trade action. I
think leading up to to yesterday's
arguments, of course, we saw the
president and his surrogates, the
Treasury Secretary, the USTR, the
Commerce Secretary, all expressing very
bullish and optimistic viewpoints that
that the court would rule in their
favor. But yesterday was not a great day
for their case.
Kate, can you give us a sense of the
range of potential rulings that the
Supreme Court could come out with if
they do essentially rule against the
White House. In other words, what's the
range of everything from just saying
these are illegal, stop it, just return
all the money, which the Committee for
the Responsible Budget estimates at $90
billion,
or hey, take a look, try to figure out
remediation plans, let's discuss, come
back to us in 6 months.
Well, that's the big question, I guess.
I think many of the courts, even some of
the lower courts, have signaled that
that there are some
some medium-term things that the White
House could do to offset some of these
IEEPA tariffs. They They could do a
couple of things, actually. They could
say to the president, "Well, tariffs are
not something that you can do, but you
can use another policy. You can enact
import licenses and quotas to restrict
imports." This is this question about
whether the tariffs themselves are
allowable to regulate commerce or
whether he needs to use another
authority. Uh they could look at the in
the uh individual tariffs. You know, the
tariffs on China, which were justified
because of a drug crisis. This may be
allowable under the IEEPA statute
because it's more related to a national
emergency than, say, a trade deficit.
So, I think there are different outcomes
here, ranging from a full uh refusal for
the president to use the statute to
enact tariffs, to to some sort of
moderated viewpoint, which enables him
to maintain tariffs in some cases, but
not in others. Kate, John was talking
about the winners, at least in the stock
market, in the wake of some of the
commentary out of the chief justices
yesterday, or the justices uh more
broadly. And I'm just wondering from the
client conversations that you're having,
what we saw in Lululemon, what we saw in
Mattel shares, is that sort of
representative of the mood, and frankly,
the approach among your clients and how
they plan to uh address this, tackle
this, plan for this type of ruling in
the near future?
Well, I really try to caution my clients
not to
to to approach this as a massive win,
because the reality is the tariff
environment is going to continue to
increase. The president, I mean, the
irony of of the IEEPA tariff is that in
many cases, it's the easiest tariff to
put on, but it's also the easiest tariff
to remove. This is a tariff the
president likes to use for leverage, and
so by nature, it's not necessarily
a long-term tariff. He threatens
exceptionally high levels, in some cases
imposes them, but very quickly reduces
them. And so this does create a a lower
tariff environment. If he loses the
IEEPA authority, you know, he will start
to rely on some of these other
authorities Congress has given him, the
Section 232 tariff on on critical
sectors, Section 301 tariff, which
enables him to hit foreign countries.
And these may take longer to impose, but
they are much more durable and
long-lasting. So, the outcome really
could be a worse tariff environment, not
a better one. Okay, just to finish up.
You've been in the room negotiating on
behalf of the United States of America
in the past under the current president.
Can you tell us, Kate, just to what
extent this will compromise negotiations
in the months to come with other
nations?
Well, I I think it might. I I think that
the president's power here very much
enabled
uh trade negotiators to get in and and
exact very important concession, because
trading partners took the president at
his word that he would impose tariffs
with speed and and, you know, with
punishment. And so that helped US
negotiators seek gains that I think
benefited US companies in in foreign
markets. That said, the president, as I
just mentioned, still has so many tools
that he can impose. The 232 tariffs, for
example, on automobiles, I think are
much more important to trading partners
like Europe and Japan and Korea than the
IEEPA tariffs ever were. So, I think our
trade negotiators are still going to
have quite a lot to negotiate with as
countries seek to get preferential
access to the United States market.
Kate, appreciate it. Appreciate your
experience as well, the former White
House trade official, Kate Kalutkiewicz
there. The message is ultimately that if
you like tariffs, you shouldn't be too
concerned. We'll find other ways. And if
you don't like trap tariffs, don't get
too excited. Basically, they're going to
find a way to raise tariffs one way or
another. The The question is how
quickly, and what is the remediation of
any potential ruling on tariffs that
have already been levied. Jon Lieber of
Eurasia Group is going to join us in the
next hour on that. Look out for that
conversation. In just a moment, we'll
catch up with Sara Senatore of Bank of
America with the restaurant sector
raising alarms on the state of the
consumer. That conversation up next.
[Music]
Bouncing back from a day of losses in
yesterday's session on the S&P 500,
thanks to the economic data and a few
other things as well. ADP, ISM, some
deeply skeptical key justices on the
Supreme Court helping things out as
well. The Nasdaq 100 up by 1/10 of 1%
this morning. On the S&P 500, up by 0.1.
The sensitive bond market, 2s, 10s, and
30s look a little something like this
this morning. Yields lower by two basis
points on 2s and 10s. Yesterday, much,
much higher than that. We're back at
about 4.13 on 10s today. Lisa, we talked
about this briefly. I think it's worth
discussing again. How much of
yesterday's move was about the economic
data? How much of it was actually about
the Supreme Court? And the answer is
yes, because what you got was a two a
one-two punch. On one hand, you got the
ISM services data with activity
expanding at the fastest pace in 8
months with prices paid increasing. You
saw that component increase in contrast
to what we saw in manufacturing. At the
same time, you also had this prospect of
the United States having to return some
$90 billion in tariff revenue should the
Supreme Court overturn the tariffs under
the IEEPA Act, which seemed to be a
reality. Next meeting at the Federal
Reserve, mid-December. Good luck to
them. You're not going to settle your
debate. There's not going to be enough
data between now and then to settle that
debate. Whose mind are you going to
change in the next 6 weeks?
>> Even if you had the data, you wouldn't
settle that debate. And I think that's
what people are struggling with. Not
only do we not have the uh hallmark
nonfarm payrolls report, but the fact
that we're seeing a market that's
incredibly confusing is just supported
again and again. Frankly, US services
data yesterday highlights this. It had a
stagflationary tilt. You saw a
contractionary type of feel in the
employment market even as you saw prices
increase and service
uh activity expand. So, how's the Fed
deal off with that? Got more estimates
for payrolls on Friday, by the way.
>> I I saw surveys coming out.
>> We got some new numbers, 17 estimates
now for payrolls Friday, a number we
won't get, and they range from anywhere
between positive 80 and negative 99.
Yeah, and so what's going to be the
check for that? They just get together
and just sort of throw bets in? I think
it does say something. You can drive a
truck through the estimates right now.
Nobody's got any idea where this labor
market is.
>> But as you've said many times before, we
also don't know what the reaction
function is. We don't understand if the
emphasis is on the headline figure or
whether it's on an unemployment rate to
try to understand whether this is a
supply issue, whether this is a demand
issue, whether this is just a changing
economy.
>> help that the Fed chair changed his mind
a couple of times over summer. TY bond
yields this morning down by two basis
points, 3.60 on 2s. With an update on
some single names, some morning movers,
let's cross over to Yahara for more. Hi,
Yahara. Hi, John. Qualcomm is the latest
name failing to live up to sky-high
expectations. Shares are now down 2.8%
in the premarket despite beating on both
profit and revenue forecasts due to
strong demand for its chips and Android
phone phones, and despite showing signs
that the CEO's push to diversify into
everything from cars to data centers is
starting to pay off, but not fast enough
for Wall Street. Meanwhile, moving on to
Snap, those shares are soaring more than
20% now in the premarket on new $400
million partnership with Perplexity AI
that will see Perplexity pay Snap to
bring its AI search engine to Snapchat.
It also came as Snap posted solid user
growth. All of this breathing new life
into a stock that had been down more
than 30% this year going into the
earnings. And we end on DoorDash. Those
moving to the downside, down 10% now
after the delivery giant said that it
would boost spending, hitting profits.
That's despite what was otherwise a
strong quarter with gross order value
posting its biggest gain in over a year,
showing consumers are still willing to
pay for convenience. Interesting after
all we heard from those restaurants
these past 2 weeks, John. Yahara, thank
you. Are we testing the limits of
investor patience? Just data point after
data point. Adam Gump here, started with
Meta last week, and it's just been one
after the other so far this week. We've
been rewarded spending for a long time.
The pushback started. You've got to take
note. Yeah, and the pushback is coming
up because spending in and of itself is
bad. The pushback is coming because
people want to show me the money. They
want to see the returns on it, and they
want to see the revenue growth, the
profit growth increase in tandem with
the spending. That's not always
happening, which is why you're seeing
people rely on the bond market more.
Futures doing okay this morning on the
S&P 500, just about positive. On our
radar this morning, this story right
here. The US Supreme Court appearing
skeptical of President Donald Trump's
sweep in global tariffs. Key justices
questioning if he overstepped his
authority. A decision against the
tariffs could force more than $100
billion
in refunds. Elsewhere, Transportation
Secretary Sean Duffy predicting, quote,
"Mass chaos." With air travel as a
record-breaking government shutdown
continues. Starting Friday, the US is
cutting flight capacity to alleviate
pressure on air traffic controllers. And
finally, this caught my eye. Nvidia CEO
Jensen Huang warning that China will win
the AI race. Huang telling the Financial
Times, "The thanks to lower energy costs
and looser regulations, China is poised
to surpass the United States in AI
development."
>> You know, Jensen Huang has come out
earlier and said that China is right
behind, nipping at the heels of the
United States, when it comes to the
advancement of tech. How much is this
come because he really sees China
getting the upper hand on some of these
subsidies for energy, in particular? How
much is this a repudiation of President
Trump's move to not allow Nvidia to sell
the Blackwell chip into China? There has
been an argument that he has made very
loudly, which is that it is a national
security issue for the United States to
remain relevant around the world when it
comes to technological prowess. Is this
his lobbying effort to say, "You are
setting us behind if you continue to
prevent us from selling Blackwell into
China?"
>> I don't know what the intent was. Nobody
does apart from Jensen himself, but I
can tell you how it looks, and you're
describing it pretty well. The tech
grift needs to be called out. You're
trying to influence policy, trying to
influence policy of the United States of
America. And the Wall Street Journal
reported on this pretty well in the last
week or so, that it actually was the
State Department that managed to
convince the president not to talk about
Blackwell chips with China. And there
was a real risk that maybe Jensen Huang
was having more influence over policy
around that specific item than maybe
Secretary Rubio himself was. That's a
concern. I'd throw in OpenAI as well in
the last day or so. I saw comments
coming from OpenAI talking about
government guarantees to some of the
buildout. They're all trying to get the
government to get more and more involved
in this buildout. For anyone that favors
free and open markets, they should be
very concerned about the influence that
we're seeing coming from some of these
major firms on policy. Yeah, and there's
also a real question here about what
government involvement should be. I
mean, you think about the whole Belt and
Road initiative, but also this idea of
building out and subsidizing some of the
efforts in China. Does that give China
the upper hand? I mean, this is actually
a real question, whether Jensen Huang is
the right person to be a credible
narrator of that argument given that he
has so much skin in the game. I'm not
sure. Nonetheless, a really interesting
headline over the past 24 hours.
>> Very, very interesting. The latest there
from the Financial Times. Let's turn to
the consumer. They appear to be losing
their appetite for fast casual
restaurant chains, including Chipotle,
Shake Shack, and Cava. Sara Senatore,
senior restaurants analyst at Bank of
America, joins us now for more. Sara,
welcome to the program. Is it just those
names, or are you seeing this across the
industry?
Well, thank Well, thank you for having
me. And And it's much broader, I think,
than just those companies. You know, we
have seen um softer performance from or
softer demand from lower-income
consumers. That's been happening
probably for the better part of the last
2 years. And now we're really seeing
evidence that it's it's broadening out
and um and rising up the income spectrum
to more middle-income households as
well. So, this is a much broader issue
than just the fast casuals, I think.
Sara, let's talk about price. I was
looking back at some of the transcripts
from Chipotle, the more recent one from
the earnings, and the one back in 2021.
And the issue on pricing, the
difference, it's just stark. It's
massive. They were talking recently
about putting prices up in California by
one percentage point, and they saw
pushback. Sara, just how much has
changed in the last 4 years?
I think one of the things that has
changed certainly and besides a softer
economy and just the softer consumer
demand overall is certainly we've seen
inflation come down, and that typically
means that restaurants don't aren't able
to take prices higher. So, you know,
consumers are very cognizant of when
pricing changes. They're looking across
their budget. They're looking at grocery
stores. And they really know when
relative pricing changes. I think that
Chipotle has actually done a very good
job of maintaining its pricing at a
fairly low pace. But this isn't, you
know, 2021 or 2022 anymore, where
restaurants can take prices up, you
know, mid-high single digits.
This is a new reality in terms of both
the demand and and the pricing
environment. Sara, how much is this
cyclical issue of the consumer really
pushing back, and how much is this
really an existential question to a lot
of the fast casual restaurant chains out
there that have lost share? You've
actually seen spending elsewhere when it
comes to restaurants and eating out do
better than this particular cohort. Is
there something else going on about
quality and value and the concept of
that that's transforming the way that
some of these companies have to compete?
You know, I I tend to think it's really
it is still the former, right? So, you
know, we know that demand has has
softened. Um it wasn't that long ago
that these fast casual restaurants were
posting, you know, same-store sales in
the mid-teens, high-teens, even, you
know, high-20s in the case of, for
example, Wingstop. Um so, I don't think
that this is a structural shift that's
happened overnight. Um I do think, like
I said, you know, this is a a slightly
higher ticket item. Um and we have
historically seen, you know, restaurants
um that have benefited from trade down
sometimes now seeing trade out. So,
consumers are just not eating out. Um
you know, we heard from McDonald's
yesterday talking about how the
low-income consumer transaction growth
is down a high single digits. That's for
for fast food. Um the middle-income
consumer, we know that cohort
transactions have also declined. So, I
really do think this is a broader issue
with the consumer that we're seeing, and
it may be manifesting most visibly in
some of the fast casuals, uh but but
it's not exclusive to them. McDonald's
also talked about how they don't see the
consumer really picking up or for there
being a better backdrop in 2026. Does
that make you pretty bearish on the
whole sector just generally, because
this is a story that's not going away?
I mean, we, you know, I I will say, you
know, this is a sort of a a Pyrrhic
victory that we have, because we have
said that for a while now, that um you
know, this the lower wage growth, the
lower demand growth among, you know,
lower-income cohorts, that's not
something that typically turns on a
dime. You know, in the past when we've
seen this, it's happened for a you know,
it's persisted for a few years. This
divergence between higher-income
consumers um who are still spending, you
know, the demand in that in that cohort
is up, you know, high single digits. So,
so kind of a a almost perhaps 20
percentage point uh
uh gap between high and low in terms of
demand growth. Um and and that's been
going on in and historically what we've
seen is patterns suggest that that will
persist um you know, certainly for
quarters, if not, you know, a couple of
years. Sara, have you got a top pick? Is
there anyone in the sweet spot, just
relatively speaking?
You know, one of the stocks that is has
uh actually performed um where we've
seen demand growth is Starbucks. Uh you
know, most people think of coffee as
being more cyclical, but we just really
haven't seen a lot of evidence of that.
You know, we saw Brose report last
night. Their their same-store sales were
also quite healthy. So, um that seems to
be a category where where uh consumers,
even younger consumers who are under
pressure, are willing to pay for the
experience. They just won't give up
their coffee. Sara, thank you. Sara
Senatore there of Bank of America.
Appreciate it. Are we testing the limits
of consumer price tolerance, and is
there evidence there
in the restaurant business, and how
instructive is it for this Federal
Reserve? We discussed this before for
Governor Waller and for Governor
Williams. Is that a decent enough
argument for them to convince some of
the hawks on the committee not to worry
about inflation and to focus on labor? I
thought you were just going to come out
and say the note to all of these fast
casual retailers is just put crack
cocaine in your different things. Make
caffeine in there. Make people hooked. I
mean, that's essentially what it has to
be. Look, I think you're right, though.
And the question is, would a Fed rate
cut actually help people at the lower
income sphere more than it would inflate
a bubble and threaten financial
stability on the other side? Does it
help, or does it exacerbate the K-shape
that we keep talking about?
>> recommended some crazy things in the
past, but crack cocaine into
Sorry. into your beverage in the morning
would be wrong.
Yeah, it's like caffeine is sort of the
same thing for for me. I'm going to just
move on now.
>> Okay, just to be very clear on that. All
right. Any children waking up this
morning, no, no. Okay. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. With your Bloomberg brief,
let's cross over to Yahaira for more.
Hey, Yahaira. Hey, John.
Billionaire Ken Griffin saying he wants
to see the newly elected New York City
Mayor Zohran Mamdani take a different
stance than the one he campaigned on.
Griffin hoping the self-proclaimed
Democratic Socialist will think about
the right role models when he thinks
about leadership, saying, quote, "The
people of New York deserve better."
Meanwhile, the French government says it
will suspend Chinese e-commerce platform
Shein after complaints about the sale of
weapons and child-like sex dolls on the
app. The suspension will affect Shein's
online marketplace and not its physical
store in Paris. Shein says it hopes for
discussions soon with French
authorities.
And Peloton is recalling more than
830,000 of its exercise bikes over
safety concerns. The Consumer Product
Safety Commission saying the bike seat
can break during use, posing a hazard to
riders. Consumers are being told to stop
using the bikes immediately and contact
Peloton for a free repair. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Yahaira, thank
you. I just got some painful images.
As Yahaira's going through that story. I
mean, cuz the seat breaking and then the
parts. I mean, this is a pretty
sensitive thing. I think this program is
just going pretty pretty south.
>> rails in the last couple of minutes. All
right. Let's get
it back on the rails if we can. And next
on the program, financing the AI boom.
AI in the right ecosystem, you have to
think about debt and equity returns on
invested capital. You're taking more
residual risk than you did 6, 12, 18
months ago. That conversation up next
with Maureen O'Connor of Wells Fargo,
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to all. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome back to
the program. Your scores look like this
this morning. Equity futures on the S&P
500 just a touch higher, up by a tenth
of 1%. On the Nasdaq 100, up by 0.07%.
Under Savannah's this morning, financing
the AI boom.
AI in the right ecosystem, you have to
think about debt and equity returns on
invested capital. You're taking more
residual risk than you did 6, 12, 18
months ago. With valuations as high as
they are in this cycle right now, you
have to take a step back and pause and
say, "Okay, do I want to be a a lender?
Do I want to be an equity owner? What's
the residual value assumptions that I'm
making? That's really what will
differentiate the winners and losers.
So, here's the latest this morning. The
record-breaking rush of debt issuance to
power the AI arms race raising questions
about long-term risk and potential
returns. Maureen O'Connor of Wells Fargo
writing issuance out of the large-cap
tech companies as well as the US
utilities will be a tailwind for
issuance over the next two to three
years. Maureen's in the studio here in
New York. She joins us for more.
Maureen, good morning.
>> Good morning. It's good to see you.
Let's just talk about how busy you've
been over the last month. How does that
stack up with the rest of the year and
the ramp you're expecting to see in 2026
and beyond?
Yeah, also we we've had an exceptionally
busy run. Um we are probably looking at
a record November for high-grade
issuance volumes by by pretty big
margin. Um a few things driving that.
Number one, you know, market conditions
are still pretty favorable here. Spreads
are relatively tight from historical
perspective. We have uh backed up
recently just with some of the heavy
supply overhang, but uh we're still very
close to cycle tights in terms of
spreads. Treasury yields have come, you
know, 60 basis points lower from the
peaks we saw in the early part of the
year. So, from just a um an issuance
window perspective, it feels like an
advantageous time to get in front of
some of your 2026 funding needs and
that's what we're seeing. But on top of
that, you obviously have this
undercurrent of CapEx spending that
needs to get financed and that is going
to be a tailwind um heading into next
year. Um so, while we are looking at
probably 150 billion of volume for
November and maybe somewhere around
1.65, 1.7 trillion in terms of total
full year supply, uh next year could be
somewhere closer to 1.8, 1.85 trillion.
That would be likely a record year for
our market rivaling that 2020 kind of
COVID liquidity rush we saw. So, we had
50 billion from just two names, almost
50 billion in the last week. Is a
smaller number of companies responsible
for a larger amount of that issuance?
Yeah, so um obviously tech supply is
quite topical. The number is actually
slightly larger than 50 when you
consider the um the non-dollar
component. Um Alphabet did do a euro uh
in addition to dollars and then you also
have project finance bonds that have
come through our market. Um so, the
number is actually a lot larger than
that um when you kind of take it all
into totality. Um but when you look at
sort of tracked tech issuance, we'll be
somewhere around 200 billion this year.
Next year, that number could increase by
something close to 75, maybe even 100%.
Um so, for sure capital expenditures is
going to be a tailwind um you know, for
for issuance as we head into the next
kind of two to three years. So far,
concentration has been a feature not a
bug of the equity market returns. Do you
get investors that are getting
increasingly concerned about
concentration risk in the
investment-grade debt market as a
heavier component becomes these tech
companies? Yeah, so I think um first and
foremost when we look at these companies
fundamentally, these are mega-cap,
highly rated, cash-rich names with
typically low net debt. Their debt
footprints up until this point have
actually been somewhat modest relative
to their market cap. Um but obviously as
they become bigger components um their
debt footprint grows and bigger
components of the index, you're going to
start to see the market price that risk.
But they're still a far cry away from
being as large as let's say the US big
six banks. Um you know, JP Morgan, BofA,
Wells Fargo. These are the largest index
weights right now. Um so, there's a long
way to go before we reach sort of a
saturation point and and banks fund
regularly in our market, albeit at
slightly wider spreads than where the
index trades. Um so, I think ultimately
our market is prepared to take down a
lot of concentration risk, but it
probably gets priced into spreads over
time. So, said another way, these these
names will likely trade a little bit
wide relative to their ratings as their
CapEx needs expand over the next two
years.
>> Putting this another way, is this a
window where things are priced
perfection, so you might as well get in
while the getting is good? I think you
are seeing a little bit of that. I think
that's what's explaining a lot of this
November rush right now. Um it it the
getting is good right now from an
industry perspective. Spreads are still
very tight, but also from a macro
perspective, the world feels pretty good
right now. There's a lot of
uncertainties as we head into next year.
Um so, I think you are seeing a lot of
folks get in front of what they
anticipate their funding needs will be
um in 2026 and de-risking those plans
now. The world is changing rapidly.
Something I've been confused about for a
long time. Help me understand. Why does
anyone want to buy 50-year debt of a
tech company? Can you explain that to
us? Yeah, I mean I think it also goes
back to the strong fundamentals I was
just alluding to. A lot of these
companies are very highly rated, right?
Double A rated risk. Um so, and even if
we do take on a large amount of
leverage, most of them are not in in in
danger of threatening those double A
ratings. Um so, I think um you know,
when from a fundamental perspective,
these are still considered pretty safe
investments. But more than that, there's
a technical component to long duration
supply in our market. Um a big component
of who buys corporate credit is going to
be liability-driven investors. These are
pension funds, these are insurance
companies, these are investors that are
matching their assets against their
liability streams. Naturally, these
folks lean longer on the curve and our
market had been undersupplied in long
duration to a huge degree up until
basically the last week or so um where
the market's gotten a lot of long
duration. So, there was a pent-up demand
for long uh and paper heading into this
wave of issuance that has supported a
pretty tight spread environment. Um you
know, over time, could we see spread
curve steepen? I think the answer to
that question is probably yes as these
companies increasingly rely on very
long-dated debt capital. But for now,
there is such a strong technical base in
our market supporting that bid for long
duration um that I think um a lot of
these companies will be highly
successful funding these cap uh capital
expenditures.
>> Can you give us a sense of how many uh
coupon clippers there are versus fast
traders ver- versus fast money? I mean,
just to get a sense of how much pricing
risk is in some of these uh markets.
Yeah, I can imagine insurance company
just wants to match the liabilities.
They're going to clip the coupon.
They're going to like that income for 50
years if we still are using search and
if we still are using iPhones. We don't
just have a chip planted in our brains.
Well, I mean, it's just that when
technology is changing this quickly,
it's very hard to say that this is going
to be a triple A rated company or double
A rated company in you know, I'm right
there with you. I can't even read 2075,
but I am curious how much is this fast
money coming into this market and how
much really is that institutional coupon
clipping buyer? Yeah, so when you when
you look at the composition of who buys
investment-grade debt, roughly 30% of
our market is pension funds and
insurance companies and that's just in
the US. Then you also have a foreign
component that buys US dollar-based
fixed income assets and in that um you
know, number is also a lot of
liability-driven investors. So, the
number is probably closer to half of our
market are more yield-focused investors.
Then you have a component of more of
this kind of total rate of return money,
ETFs and mutual funds makes up about
another 30-ish percent of our market.
And then of course, you have the more
actively traded funds, which are are are
growing component of the overall
landscape in um in in fixed income on a
primary basis. Hedge funds account for
about 10 to 15% of allocations in new
issues.
>> Are we still doing this show in 2075? I
hope we're still around. I think in 50
years, I'll come out of like I'll be
still sitting here, Maureen, when that
matures. Good morning. As that as that
as that matures, I'll still be here.
Maureen, I just want to finish on this
on the supply issue. How much
competition is this for the issuance on
the Treasury side? How much does one
compete with the other? Because what was
interesting for us following the
Alphabet issuance when that came out, it
felt like Treasuries were getting kicked
around at the same time. Does one
compete with the other?
Um you you'll find that the the markets
are pretty bifurcated. Um usually from
an asset allocation perspective, there's
not a lot of fluidity between those two
markets necessarily. People will have a
fixed income allocation and it will be,
you know, spread across a multitude of
different products. Obviously,
Treasuries, um corporates, but also MBS,
ABS, etc. Um so, you what the the the
pressure that we saw on Treasury yields
at the beginning of the week was a
result of, you know, some of the the the
the response to the Fed meeting last
week and then the refunding
announcement. So, I think it's really
more macro factors driving Treasury um
volatility than it is about corporate
debt issuance at least for now.
>> Maureen, this was great. Let's do it
again soon. Don't wait for that bond to
mature, okay?
Maureen O'Connor of Wells Fargo. We're
going to see a lot more of this to come
through next year if those numbers are
anything to go by. You're planning to
wake up at 3:00 a.m. every single day
until you're, you know, 90 years old, I
can't wait to do that. This is going to
be really something. 2075, you're going
to feel like you're crumbling.
Can you imagine? People won't even get
news at that point. They'll just put a
chip in their head. Yeah, I don't know
what's going on in 2075. Which begs the
question, you know, why do you want to
Yeah. Can you imagine? We'll just all
just have vibes and put it into our
heads. And the robots are going to
control everything anyway. By like
Elon's kids or something cuz that's
who's still around at that point, right?
They're just plugging in the vibes.
That's how it works.
>> just sort of Yeah. My goodness. I don't
even want to think about that. Coming up
next, Bob Doll of Crossmark Global
Investments, John Leiper of River Group,
former Kansas City Fed President Esther
George, Brad Rogoff of Barclays. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up
next.
[Music]
We're seeing a much larger theme of a
strong economy. The growth of the
economy is probably accelerating.
>> There are still a lot of inflationary
catalysts.
>> We're not worried that this is the start
of a new inflation cycle.
>> The economy going into 2026
looks okay. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 pretty stable at
the moment, almost positive by a tenth
of 1% following yesterday's gains on the
Nasdaq just about unchanged. In the bond
market, bond yields across the curve
twos out to 30s yesterday pushing
higher, this morning coming lower. We're
down two basis points at the front end
of the curve. On tens, we're down by
three. 4.13 on a 10-year bond yield and
a ton to consider. Lots of economic
data, I should say conflicting economic
data, and the prospect of an interesting
Supreme Court decision taking place
before the turn of the year. On one hand
yesterday, people were taking a look at
the ISM services data with a volume and
activity accelerating to the highest
pace going back seven months and saying,
"Wow, why should the Fed cut rates
anytime soon?" And then the potential
for if the Supreme Court overturning the
tariffs raise the raise the raise the
specter that US revenue from tariffs
would be excised from the balance sheet
also bond negative. That said, all of
the earnings that we have gotten from
fast casual restaurants have pointed to
a consumer flat on its back at a
K-shaped economy where one side of the K
is really not doing well and that is
making it very difficult for the Federal
Reserve.
>> We've talked a lot about division at the
Federal Reserve. Division, it's so
divided. Check out the Bank of England.
Decision just crosses leaving interest
rates at 4%. The estimate was 4%. A five
to four vote for this one promo, a five
four vote. That's what division looks
like at a central bank.
>> Yeah, and this is what difficult
decision for a central bank looks like
when you have a budget that isn't
working. Where essentially bond yields
are creating a real liability and
creating a debt spiral that is very much
a doom loop. What you are seeing is the
pound respond just a little bit but
highlighting just how difficult it is
for the members of the Bank of England
to have agreement. Some people might say
this is great. Look at the disagreement
that you have. It also shows they've
lost the plot. They are just responding
and being buffeted by political
decisions, geopolitical decisions, and
frankly structural issues that they
cannot solve.
>> A slight difference with the Federal
Reserve, almost the opposite of what we
saw from the Fed just last week. The Fed
cut interest rates but couldn't guide.
The Bank of England doesn't cut but
almost guides to cutting in the future.
The Bank of England essentially saying
that rates remain rates remain likely on
a gradual downward path and the overall
risk to inflation now are more balanced.
That's a different tone, a different set
of guidance coming from this institution
compared to the Federal Reserve.
>> They're also facing off with a very
different economic backdrop. The Federal
Reserve is trying to justify cutting
rates into an economy that a lot of
people say is accelerating, whereas in
England it is a very different economic
backdrop where you're seeing downgrades
to the economic prospects from the main
budget office at the same time that debt
rates are rising.
>> We'll have more on that decision in just
a moment. Coming up on the program, Bob
Doll of Crossmark Global Investments as
the equity rebound appears to stall.
Joanne Leeper of Eurasia Group with the
government shutdown forcing flight cuts
and Brad Rogoff of Barclays as a global
bond rush breaks records. We begin with
that rate decision from the Bank of
England. Bloomberg's Lizzie Burden joins
us now from London for more. Good
morning, Lizzie.
Morning, John. Yeah, it's a hold at 4%
as economists had expected. It's the
safer bet as you say given that we've
got a budget coming from the Chancellor
Rachel Reeves on November the 26th and
given that CPI inflation at its latest
reading was 3.8%.
But this vote split, as you say, was
really a tight one. Five four. We
expected Swati Dhingra, Dave Ramsden,
and Alan Taylor to vote to cut but the
surprise here is Sarah Breeden, the
deputy governor. And this time we get to
find out the thinking behind each
Monetary Policy Committee members
thinking. She says now she's more
confident that disinflation is on track.
Now, in terms of the forecast, the
expectation was that they'd cut the
inflation forecast for this year and
next compared to the August projections.
In fact, now they see inflation below
the 2% target in the second quarter of
2027, so below the previous forecast.
And in terms of the guidance, we were
wondering whether they'd keep this
language about a gradual and careful
approach to cutting rates. They're
saying that rates are likely on a
gradual downward path and that the
overall risks to inflation are now more
balanced. So I'm really looking forward
to this press conference, John. I'm
wondering what the governor's going to
say about the Chancellor cuz she was
firing shots from Downing Street to
Threadneedle Street on just Tuesday
saying that having rates at 4% is
constraining business borrowing. Some
saying that's a bit Trump-esque. I
wonder what the governor's going to have
to say about the budget but also how
he's going to frame that 3.8% inflation.
If you look at the market reaction right
now, you've had the pound trimming the
gains it had before the decision. So
we're now only up a 10th of a percent
but still at $1.30. Gilts have been
gaining off the back and traders have
held their easing bets steady. So
they're seeing 15 basis points of cuts
in December now. Lizzie, just quickly,
what time's the news conference?
We'll be with it in 25 minutes and we'll
have full coverage for you right here on
Bloomberg TV.
>> Wonderful, Lizzie. Thank you, Lizzie
Burden there over in the city of London.
Of course, they'll be tracking that Bank
of England news conference at 7:30
Eastern time, so about 25 minutes from
now. You can watch that if you're in the
United Kingdom. For everybody else,
you're stuck with us and we're going to
talk about the broader market. The view
on Wall Street looks like this. The
stock bounce on pause following an AI
rally. Bob Doll of Crossmark Global
Investments writing this, the asset
price inflation party will roll on given
that monetary conditions have become
even more accommodative and corporate
earnings, the prospects for them remain
positive. Bob joins us now for more.
Bob, welcome to the program, sir. Always
good to see Bob Doll. Bob, let's get
into this. So you say things remain
constructive and positive and I hear
you. I get all of that but I'm seeing
pushback in the equity market at a
single name level. Earnings report after
earnings report from companies that have
put up decent figures including the
likes of Palantir and the market has
pushed back. How notable is that, Bob?
Definitely notable. I'm I'm five four
inside myself. The five is things are
okay. When earnings estimates are going
up and the Fed's cutting rates, stocks
go up. The four part says but and the
butt has everything to do with all kinds
of measures of speculation and internal
divergences. The advance-decline line,
for example, Jonathan, as you know, has
been awful the last week or so. Um so I
think we're in for some sort of at best
sideways action, maybe some sort of
pullback but I don't think the bull
market's over. Bob, at what point is
this dissonance between asset price
inflation and real price disinflation
not sustainable? In other words, is
there a time when either asset prices
need to come down to where the price
increases in the acceleration of
inflation really is or does inflation
need to pick up pace?
Uh good question, Lisa. Look, I think
inflation is sticky. Uh the Fed seems to
think they're going to get the two.
Chance of that to me absent a recession
are close to zero. It's just not going
to happen. Uh obviously when you throw
money at the system, a lot of it find
its way into asset prices and that's
what we've witnessed for months and
months and months now. So I think this
can go on as long as that liquidity is
strong, as long as earnings are strong.
Uh you know, to repeat, when when
earnings estimates are moving up and the
Fed's lowering rates, the market hardly
ever goes down. Bob, do you think if the
Fed cuts rates that it will allow some
sort of broadening out in the
participation in the index and that you
see asset price inflation with the
stocks of consumer-facing companies
truly go up a reflection of a better
economic backdrop or do you think it
will just accelerate what we've seen at
the very top? The big tech names
continuing to do better, inflate some
sort of bubble that people have been
worried about.
I think it'll be largely more of the
same, Lisa. That is to say, uh these
growth big growth companies are where
the action is. Um unlike I hear so many
comparisons to the dot-com bubble. Those
companies then, they didn't have
earnings. Many of them didn't have
revenues. Here we have earnings, we have
revenues, we have cash flow. We can
quibble about the valuations but I think
until this bull market is over, probably
these growth stocks lead the way. Bob,
let's talk about everybody else and what
that Supreme Court decision might mean
for them. Bit of a stress test
yesterday. Some deeply skeptical Supreme
Court justices, key justices for this
administration if they want to get their
own way. Bob, your thoughts on what took
place yesterday and ultimately how do
you expect this market to react if the
Supreme Court did strike down this
broad-based tariff effort?
So, Jonathan, my my sources tell me that
the president, the administration has
other tricks up their sleeves, other
ways to do this. So it wouldn't be
pleasant if it went that way but I'm not
sure that any any other reasonable
circumstances the tariffs are going
away. They're here. The names that
otherwise have found it difficult in
2025, we saw it bounce. Macy's been a
terrible stock for 2025, had a bounce
yesterday. Macy's had a bounce. Lisa
Spelman
Metall also had a bounce. Bob, to get
this market to broaden out, to see that
performance broaden out, if they're
still able to put tariffs on through
different means, different ways, Bob, is
it difficult to get that broader story?
I think it is um outside these
short-term moves. Look, we know in the
third quarter and and to date the
junkiest companies, the companies not
making money, have done really well.
This market has gotten very speculative.
Um you know, SPACs are back. IPO price
um from announcement to the close in the
first day, this year is the best since
the year 2000. That wasn't such a good
year to be in stocks. Uh margin debt
over trillion dollars. You know the
list. Um so we have some speculation and
that's going to cause a lot of
turbulence in the market, not just the
market overall but inside. You're
pointing some of that in your question.
You talk about potential turmoil in the
stock market. What about the bond
market? This has been one of the biggest
threat points that a lot of people have
said. Do you expect bond vigilantes to
make a rare appearance if there is some
sort of court overturn of the IEEPA use
of tariffs?
Thank you, Lisa.
That is to say, um the bond market, too
many of us equity folks just ignore it
but you know, you get rates, the 10-year
down under four 4% for about a day and a
half and then it starts creeping back up
for all kinds of reasons. Not the least
of which is the dollar has come back to
some degree as you know, they're part
and parcel of each other. But I think as
long as we're dealing with a 10-year
kind of where we are and the fear that
it's going to drift higher on yield,
that's not great news for stocks. Bob,
so always good to see you, sir. Let's
get you in the studio next time. Bob
Doll there of Crossmark Global
Investments still constructive on this
equity market. Mike Wilson and Morgan
Stanley with us earlier this week very
constructive on the stock market in the
past week and his message is clearly,
sir, he thinks the worst of the news is
behind us. The recession was back in
April and since then things have
improved and it's the ISM the start of
things to come? ISM services was much
hotter than expected almost across the
board.
>> Yeah, he also was talking about how you
could see that rotation back into the
cyclicals. In that type of scenario,
could you see an index level that
actually stays flat or just creeps up a
little bit with an underperformance of
some of the AI-related names as other
companies do better. And that's kind of
what you've seen underneath the hood of
markets. When we saw a sell-off earlier
this week, it was actually one with
broader participation and more gainers
than losers. So, it really raises the
question, is that what we're expecting
next year? And is that kind of the
recovery that is deeply unsatisfying for
some?
>> The stock market doing okay this
morning, positive by close to 2/10 of 1%
on the S&P 500. With an update on
stories worldwide, here's your Bloomberg
brief with Yohai Anad. Yohai Anad. Hi
John. The Bank of England holding its
key interest rate steady despite four
members pushing for an immediate cut.
The Central Bank signaled a gradual
downward path for future rates, noting
that inflation risks are now more
balanced. The BOE also lowering its
inflation forecast, expecting it to fall
below the 2% target by mid-2027.
Meanwhile, Snap shares are rising more
than 20% in the pre-market. The company
announcing a $400 million
partnership to roll out Perplexity's AI
search engine to Snapchat users
globally. Perplexity's product will
become the default search tool inside
Snapchat starting next year.
And Moderna reporting third quarter
revenue that beat expectations, but
cutting the top end of its full-year
revenue forecast. The pharma giant cited
a decline in net product sales,
specifically COVID vaccine sales, as
reason for the revenue drop. Shares are
up more than 5%. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John. Yohai, thank you. More from
Yohai later this hour. Up next on the
program, not cleared for takeoff.
Our sole role is to make sure that we
keep this airspace as safe as possible.
There is going to be a 10% reduction in
capacity at 40 of our locations. Up
next, John Leiper of Eurasia Group live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Stocks are positive this Thursday
morning, adding some weight to
yesterday's rally up by 0.1% on the S&P
500. On the Nasdaq, up by 0.11. Down in
Washington D.C., the pressure building
to end a record-long government
shutdown. And as Savannah's this
morning, not cleared for takeoff.
I anticipate there'll be additional
disruptions.
Uh there'll be frustration. Uh we are
working with the airlines. Uh they're
going to work with passengers. But in
the end, our sole role is to make sure
that we keep this airspace as safe as
possible. There is going to be a 10%
reduction in capacity at 40 of our
locations.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
United States cutting flights across the
country to alleviate pressure on the
aviation system during the ongoing
government shutdown. My Shepard tracked
the story down in Washington D.C. and
joins us now for more. Shepard, is this
the pressure point? Are things getting
real now in Washington? Uh it it is
getting real, but it has been getting
real for a while, John. We've already
seen other impacts from the shutdown. We
have seen food benefits dialed back and
reduced. We have also seen tens of
thousands of federal workers furloughed.
These are the non-essential workers. And
then we have seen essential workers like
those air traffic controllers showing up
day after day after day and not getting
paid. And this is starting to add up.
And estimates are that this is costing
the economy about $15 billion per week
as it drags on. And yes, this is all
adding up to a big pressure point, but
so far we are not seeing a change in the
equation when it comes to the
negotiations between Republicans and
Democrats here in Washington. After uh
Tuesday's election vic- election
victories for Democrats, uh we saw the
top party's top two leaders in Congress,
Hakeem Jeffries and Chuck Schumer, write
to President Donald Trump asking for a
meeting with other congressional leaders
to try to negotiate a way out of it. But
President Donald Trump so far has not
taken them up on that offer. he is
urging Senate Republicans to do away
with the filibuster rule. And that would
allow the party to jam through on party
lines the spending package that has been
held up by Democratic objections over
potential losses in health benefits.
That's really at the center here and
what Democrats want to negotiate. Uh but
we're going to have to see, John, how
much further this can go and how much
more pain the economy will have to take
before leaders on both sides start to
move. And we'll see who blinks first
here. I Shepard, appreciate the update.
Anna Frame and down in Washington D.C.
Tracking the White House and the
president, Lisa, doesn't appear that
this is on top of the priority list for
them this week. The major one in the
last week has been the last 24 hours at
the Supreme Court. There's been more
commentary about that. Yes, we are
hearing about ratcheting up the
pressure. And I'm looking and if you're
leaving any major airport anywhere
around the country, you will get delayed
at some point. That's basically the uh
takeaway here. Nonetheless, the focus
really is, will the primary trade
objective get overturned by the top
court in the United States? And what are
the consequences of that?
>> Lisa, at the moment just background
noise. Of course, that could change, but
certainly at the moment just kind of
background noise. John Leiper of Eurasia
Group is in the studio here in New York
for more. John, good morning. Morning.
Let's start with trade. How instructive
was yesterday's hearing for you and the
team? I thought it was uh I mean, the
justices were clearly skeptical of the
government's argument. So, if I'm the
Trump administration, I'm not feeling
great about the ability the the fact
that the court is going to uphold my
signature project right now. And if that
happens, there's a lot of uncertainty
and questions that generate, such as, uh
will there be refunds generated for
people who paid the tariffs already? And
what's the fiscal path going forward? is
$4 trillion in revenue over the next
four years. They'll be able to recreate
that wall through other methods over
time. But there's going to be this
introduces a big dose of uncertainty
into 2026 on who's getting tariffs, uh
what does it mean for the status of the
deals that have been struck with Japan,
with Korea, with China, with the UK? Uh
and and I think the administration
doesn't isn't offering answers to that
right now. They're hoping the court
sides with them, but there's at least
three conservative justices that looked
very skeptical of their arguments
yesterday. And it does look more today
more like those tariffs will be struck
down than it did two days ago.
>> How surprised were you that there was
such definitive tone out of the Supreme
Court justices, including those in the
conservative block of the uh of the
court, given that pretty much most
people were expecting that they would
okay this? They would essentially sign
off on it as they have other initiatives
by the president.
>> look at the lower court arguments,
they're pretty solid. I mean, this is uh
the the tariffs have raised a number of
questions as to the presidential
authority. You know, there's questions
about whether or not the power to
regulate trade includes the power of the
tax. That's something that Neil Gorsuch
was focused on. And then some of these
tariffs, I think, are just clearly not
related to national security at all. You
can't put tariffs on Brazil because you
don't like the way they're treating your
political ally and then claim that's an
economic uh national security emergency.
So, I think there's obviously some
tariffs here that are weaker. And there
are some that are potentially stronger,
like the fentanyl tariffs, which you
could claim is an emergency. Is
President Trump losing his clutch over
the narrative? And I say this given that
he really dominated the Republican
Party, but now you have conservative
leading justices talking about tariffs
as a tax, which is exactly what he is
pushing back against. And talking about
things that Democrats have been talking
about for a while. Do you think that
this is significant regarding a broader
shift that you're seeing in the
political mindset?
>> I think it was only a matter of time
before we started to see some of the
institutions that govern the US come
back and bite an executive who's been
very active and aggressive in his first
10 months in office. This is his second
term. He came in with a plan. He came in
with the people in order to execute on
that plan. And he's accomplished a lot.
He's particularly accomplished a lot in
foreign policy. But he's going to run
into the limits of his power at some
point. And it's the Supreme Court that's
the one that's going to be reining him
back in. And I think we saw some
evidence of that yesterday. I think for
investors, this is actually an important
signal. Because what's this narrative of
the of the US this year has been is this
the one of the big questions has been,
is this the US that we know and love? Or
is something different now? And I think
the institutional constraints on
President Trump is a positive sign for
the investment community that he can be
restrained, that executive power is not
unlimited, and that the court still does
its job.
>> Let's extend this conversation. The
Supreme Court's job, how far they going
to take this? Are they going to
prescribe a refund process? Just how far
will they take this? The refund process
is tough. I mean, the court doesn't want
to be the Supreme Court in particular
doesn't want to be the administrator of
a refund process. So, there's lots of
different ways that this could go. They
could say everybody who paid the tariffs
so far this year gets a refund, and then
they all get the money back. That seems
unlikely, though. What looks more likely
is that the lower courts are going to be
charged with administering some kind of
re- refund process. We don't know what
that looks like. It could be the case
that individual companies have to sue
and say, "Hey, you know, there's this
law. It's unconstitutional. It's
illegal. We paid the tariffs. We want
our money back." And then that works its
way through the courts. So, that's
uncertainty that could go for 6 to 12
months or longer next year for those
individual companies, even though we
know at a high level that these tariffs
are illegal. And this is going to have
to Scott down in Washington D.C. This is
going to have to figure out some new
revenue. Where's it going to come from?
>> I think that I mean, they have plenty of
other tools for raising tariffs. There's
section 122, which allow I mean, I'm
sure your viewers have all heard these
codes by now. Section 122, which allows
150 days of 15% tariffs. And then
there's all these individual country
tariffs called the 301s. It's how
they're raising revenue on China. And of
course, let's not forget that some of
the most powerful tools that Trump has
are the sectoral national security
tariffs, which are the 232s. So, there's
plenty of other tools they have. They
just have to go through the process of
getting there. And they haven't yet. I
mean, I mean,
it allowed give the president a lot of
power, it allows him to change his mind
quickly, but these other tools allow
need a little more process and a little
more time to put into place. So, it's
really good to see you in person, and
I'm just wondering when you go back to
DC, are you going to fly there? I'm
taking a train. There's I'm not getting
on a plane right now. I'm just
wondering, you know, I'm looking at this
and I'm seeing, you know, Ronald Reagan
Washington National, I'm seeing
LaGuardia, I'm seeing pretty much every
airport and every metro major
metropolitan area. Is this a warning
shot from the government essentially
saying, "We're going to raise the ante,
we're going to make you feel this to try
to push people to the negotiating table
sooner?" Absolutely. And I think the
real deadline here, it's not today, it's
not this weekend, it's Thanksgiving. And
you've got millions of American families
that are including mine that's looking
forward to traveling on Thanksgiving on
a plane, and those planes better be
flying. And so that means the government
has to be open by that point, otherwise
they're going to have a lot of angry
Americans out there. So I think that
puts a backstop on how long this
shutdown can end. It's 2 weeks away,
still got some time here to negotiate,
but they better solve this problem by
then or else I'm going to be, you know,
down at the Capitol building protesting.
>> I like that you went to the Washington
airports first because this is about
inconveniencing the politicians
themselves, not about the rest of the
country. I mean, both, to be fair. I
mean, it's going to absolutely
inconvenience everyone, but they're
trying to raise the pressure. Is this
going to work? I guess that's my
question. Is this going to work on the
Republicans end given the fact that
Democrats haven't borne the brunt of it
so far in the polls? Gentlemen, can we
talk about data?
What does data collection look like?
Let's say it ends before Thanksgiving
cuz no one wants to go through that. I
can go with that. Let's go with that. I
hope that's the case.
What happens with the data after that?
So, you know, in the past what they've
done is they've doubled up on data
releases when they have the data. So,
they collected the September payroll
data for example, they just didn't
release it. They haven't collected the
October or and if the shutdown goes into
the next week, they'll probably miss the
November household survey as well. And
so if they don't have that data, they
can't release it if they haven't done
the surveys. It's possible they could do
the employment survey cuz that's
electronic, so employers fill it out and
they fill it out over a long period of
time. It's one of the reasons we have
such big revisions because it takes a
long time to get all the employers to
fill it out. But you know, there's
precedent here where they've skipped
data releases and then they just kind of
catch up over time. But that is one of
the big questions and you've got a whole
bunch of other data as well. CPI and
other crucial data sets that are going
to be skipped cuz no one's no one's
doing the work right now.
>> Big question mark about the quality of
that data once it is collected Well,
that's that's preexisting, right? We
don't know. I think the faith in that
data was starting to decline anyway.
Yeah, though but people who do have
data, they looked at ADP yesterday and
you could get six different explanations
of what we exactly saw. So, it really
comes down to A, how good is the data
collection and B, do we understand
anything about the data even if we were
to get it in some sort of integrity
integral level? We're not going to
settle that debate at the Federal
Reserve anytime soon. John, it's good to
see you. Let's do it again soon. Yeah,
happy to. The train works.
John Lieber, it's great to have you
here. I know. It's because the planes
are actually cheaper than the train now.
Everyone's sort of, you know, I get it.
I started using the train, too. Me, too.
It works. It's better than this.
>> It's much better. No security, you get
to go downtown,
bring your own food, Yeah, totally.
Exactly.
Room service, like room service, train
service.
[Music]
Looking to add some weight to
yesterday's rally, equity futures this
morning slightly positive on the S&P 500
up by 1/10 of 1% on the Nasdaq 100 up by
0.1.
As we count you down to the opening bell
about 2 hours away with your morning
movers, here's your Yohai. Hey Yohai. Hi
John, we start with Moderna. Those
shares are rising in the premarket after
the company posted a smaller than
expected loss giving some relief after a
tough year due to falling demand for its
COVID vaccines. The stock had dropped
more than 40% this year heading into the
earnings, so the bar was low as
investors continue waiting on Moderna to
find a new growth moat beyond COVID.
Meanwhile, moving on to Elf shares, they
are also falling down more than 21% now
in the premarket. That is despite the
company saying it had a record-breaking
Sephora launch of Hailey Bieber's beauty
brand which Elf recently bought, but
that failed to distract investors from a
lower than expected quarterly earnings
plus a weaker outlook for this fiscal
year. And we end on Marvell
Technologies. Those shares are rising
more than 7% in the premarket. And that
is after our reporting that SoftBank
considered a takeover earlier this year
in what would have been the chip
industry's biggest deal ever since the
plan would have combined Marvell with
ARM Technologies which SoftBank already
controls. John. Yohai, thank you.
Appreciate the update and more from
Yohai in just a moment. On our radar
this morning, our top story, the Supreme
Court appearing skeptical of President
Donald Trump's tariffs. The justices
questioning the use of IEEPA with Chief
Justice John Roberts suggesting the move
imposes taxes on Americans. Elsewhere,
Apple planning to use a Google developed
AI model to help power its Siri
overhaul. The two companies finalizing
an agreement that would see Apple pay
roughly $1 billion a year for access to
Google's technology. And finally, JP
Morgan boss Jamie Dimon saying the
headcount at the bank will likely remain
steady or rise as the company continues
its AI rollout. The announcement coming
after a wave of job cuts at other
employers. Two things. Number one, a
number of bank executives have said not
necessarily that AI and the deployment
of it will lead to layoffs, but just the
business expanding while the headcount
stays the same. We heard this from Brian
Moynihan as well. Not sure whether
that's the best arbiter of just what AI
is going to do in terms of the job
market in the rest of the universe. The
second thing is, if that is the case
that right now AI deployment will not
replace jobs, are all of the layoff
announcements that we saw this morning
from Challenger, Gray & Christmas, are
all of the discussions of AI at
corporate headquarters as a reason not
to hire, an excuse that really just
speaks to a very difficult moment where
they want to bring in
the belts. So, these are some of the
things that I think come out of some of
those comments.
>> of this, of course, is PR spin.
Really this replaces potential jobs.
That could be one other way of looking
at things right now because the message
that I'm hearing from Bank of America,
from JP Morgan so far this week, it's
been a very powerful message for
investors. We will generate each
additional dollar of revenue and it will
become less and less labor intensive.
That's fantastic news for investors and
that speaks to the moment we're in.
There seems to be a decoupling, if we
can call it that, maybe that's a
stretch, but certainly a little bit of
tension between what you're seeing on
headline growth, which is okay, and what
you're seeing on employment, which is a
step down, a massive step down in
employment growth. And we've gone back
and forth on this all year. For how much
longer can that persist? Especially
given the fact that the lower younger
cohorts are having trouble getting new
jobs. To your point about the idea that
entry-level jobs are probably more
challenged because it does prevent
future hiring. There is also though a
larger question here, which is they
might be adding headcount at a place
like JP Morgan, but in what areas? It's
not the same areas that they were in the
past. They're different kinds of jobs.
And so it raises a question, it might in
the in the future create more jobs than
it than it destroys. But what are the
retraining programs? How do these
companies really make sure that a lot of
the employers employees, excuse me, have
the skills that they need to actually
adapt to the new technology?
>> These are problems for politicians like
right now, yesterday, last week, months
ago, last year. They're already late, I
think, on this issue.
>> is my issue. How much are we missing the
boat? Is this the next globalization
issue? Not necessarily are you going to
stop this train, but how do you adapt to
it and make sure that people don't get
lost behind. And that I think is
something that we're seeing in a lot of
the data and frankly in the commentary
that we saw out of Challenger, Gray &
Christmas when they said the planned
layoffs came from technology and
warehouse sectors in particular, and it
came on the heels of both AI as a
convenient way of avoiding a downturn
that we are seeing in a lot of the
consumers.
>> Remember the conversations we'd have
with G2 over at Cisco? And we'd
basically ask the question repeatedly,
would AI do to services what
globalization did to manufacturing? And
his response over and over again is,
"Sure, yeah, but more profound, much
more much more profound than you think."
And much faster. And this is the
difficulty. It's happening in real time,
and so how do you get people up to speed
given the fact that things are changing
under their feet. And I think that
that's really going to be an increasing
issue.
>> Let's stick with the labor market. Lisa
mentioned the Challenger October job
cuts surging to more than 20-year high
for the month of October. Bloomberg's
Mike McKee has some more details on the
figures. Good morning, Mike.
Good morning, John. And what you and
Lisa were just talking about is the
major reason that Challenger says it is
reporting the highest number of October
job cuts since 2003.
Here are the numbers, 153,000
job cuts announced in October. We're up
65% year-to-date from 2024. Maybe even
more interesting, look at the last two
numbers there. We're down a 35% in terms
of hiring plans this year and the 2025
seasonal hiring plans announced, 372,000
some odd. That's the lowest Challenger
says since they began tracking this data
in 2012.
So, it is a picture of a labor market
that is struggling and as I mentioned,
they blame Dodge for cutting government
jobs and then AI and the softening
economy for what companies are saying
they're going to do. And that's the key
here. This is what companies are saying
they're going to do, it's not
necessarily what they're going to do,
which is why Challenger usually doesn't
get as much attention as it's getting
this morning.
These are compiled from announcements
rather than actual job cuts. They may
not be carried through, some may come
from attrition, and the cuts are
worldwide, not just in the United
States. So, while this is a bad number,
while it looks bad, we don't really have
a solid figure to go with it. This is
more in the
touchy-feely space, the vibe space, than
it is in the hard data space.
>> And the vibes aren't good, but Mike,
let's talk about the hard data. How does
it fit in? How does it jive with what
else we've heard through the week? Well,
we've gotten bad news on the ISM
numbers, both manufacturing and services
contracting during the month. ADP came
in with a positive number, 42,000 after
being down 29,000 the month before. But,
that doesn't necessarily mean that we're
going to be getting a kind of big job
gain because ADP doesn't always match up
very well with the non-farm payrolls
that we're not getting tomorrow. And
also, 42,000 is not very many jobs. So,
the labor market clearly stalling out.
The question is
is Challenger pointing us to where we're
going with unemployment? Because
employment itself has really plateaued.
Mike McKee, thank you, sir, with the
latest job figures. Let's turn to the
Federal Reserve. Recent dissents
highlighting the lack of consensus at
that institution as the central bank
struggles with the data drought. The
former Kansas City Fed President Esther
George joins us now for more. Esther, we
were just tracking that story with Mike
McKee. I'm sure you were following
along. Do you think this Federal Reserve
is attempting to address a structural
problem with interest rates?
Yes, I do, Jonathan, and I think that's
what makes this so challenging for the
committee. You can't ignore the story
you just heard, which is there's
something going on in the labor market,
things are moving in a way, and yet you
can't really put your finger on. Is this
change happening in real time? Is this
going to settle out to a more stable
view of what's going on with that labor
market? Particularly, when you are
looking at what I would characterize as
easy financial conditions and many of
the other traditional signs that would
go along with this labor market data
would need you to think something
different. So, it is a it is a
challenging time, and those
crosscurrents of information and data
are making it a tough job for the FOMC.
And it's an even tougher job for
investors to understand how the FOMC is
going to respond to that data because
the reaction function doesn't seem
clear. You have a lot of dissent, you've
got a lot of fissures on the committee,
but you also have, frankly, a question
of how much they're looking at the
unemployment rate versus the actual
total number of jobs, and how much
that's taking priority over inflation.
Do you have a greater sense of what that
reaction function is?
Well, I do not, Lisa, and I think you
see that in the discussion at the
committee level, which is to say
where are we putting our weight? In
September, the committee came out very
clearly and said, "We're putting our
weight on the labor market." When we see
this softening we're inclined to bring
our policy rate back to something that
we are guessing is more normal than
where it currently sits, and that
narrative has held through to two
meetings. And this meeting, of course,
we got the
question mark, I think, of whether that
narrative would continue. So,
the the information coming in and the
fact that you don't have official data
to back up some of those views is going
to make this I think difficult for
individual members to really reconcile
their views and and come to terms with
that. Is this a Fed that has a dual
mandate still, or does it have more
mandates than that? And I wonder if it's
also keeping interest rates within a
reasonable level, especially with the
deficit where it is. If that's an
increasing factor, even if not
verbalized, in the back of people's
heads.
Well, it is
the idea that the Fed needs to keep
rates low to assist the federal
government's debt position is certainly
not one of its mandates. Notwithstanding
the pressure that you see coming from
various corners to try to accommodate
that. It is going to become, I think, an
increasingly difficult issue that will
intersect with monetary policy because
we know that these higher debt levels
without some plan in place to bring
those deficit spendings down are going
to put pressure on the Fed. It will put
higher interest rates in front of them,
inflation issues will begin to become
more dominant, I think. And so, that
intersection is a very difficult one for
a monetary policy group that is assigned
to judge labor markets and price
stability in their mandate. Esther,
where do you think we'll be on December
10th? I've got no idea how much data
we'll have. Do you think we could settle
any of these debates by the time we get
to the middle of next month?
Well, it doesn't seem likely, and
Jonathan, what you hope is whenever
you're in a period of uncertainty and
trying to weigh the risk that you don't
get an unexpected shock to the economy.
And again, I don't see anything out
there that says we resolve this
uncertainty. But, I think that's why it
makes it a difficult time for this
committee to reconcile views is because
that uncertainty looks like it is going
to persist for some time. So, Esther, is
that another way of saying that rates
might might remain on hold for some
time, at least until, say, spring of
next year?
Well, they could, and you're going to
have people argue for that, for sure.
But, I also think the committee will
have to wrestle with the narrative of
the labor market signs of weakening, and
that was the beginning of their rate
cut. So, the chairman's put the markets
on notice not to presume that that cut
is coming. On the other hand, if the
data, however informal, however pieced
together it might be does not change
that narrative, they could be inclined
to continue that cutting cycle. Esther,
if the Supreme Court overturns the
president's use of IEPA for tariffs, and
you don't have that revenue coming in,
and that isn't necessarily any kind of
discussion on the inflationary pressure
if that money gets refunded. Do you
think that gives the incentive to the
Federal Reserve, the FOMC, to cut rates
more aggressively?
Well, not necessarily, Lisa, and the
reason I think that is because I think
this throws another log of uncertainty
onto the fire.
If if the federal government has to do
something different with those tariffs
that then raise the prospect of where
where do we find that happening? Will it
be sectorial? Is it going to be
in terms of lowering revenues
immediately or in the long term?
It is another, I think, reminder of why
it is so important for policy makers,
not at the Fed, but policy makers that
are thinking about our fiscal situation,
to really begin to be more
forward-looking about what we face as a
way to lay a foundation for future
economic growth. Because right now,
we're in a bit of a soup that isn't
isn't providing the kind of foundation
that I think we need. Esther, powerful
final point. Appreciate an update from
you, as always. The former Kansas City
Fed President Esther George there on the
Federal Reserve. We've been waiting for
the impact of something that happened 7
months ago
to take form, to materialize, and here
we are talking about a change in policy
all over again. Talk about that soup.
That soup is getting even more difficult
to wade through. We haven't even had the
full tariffs put on, and a lot of
companies have been delaying it. Well,
suddenly we could have it totally
overturned. It is very difficult to come
up with any kind of concrete policy or
guidance in this type of environment.
>> Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg Brief.
Let's cross over to Yohai for more. Hey,
Yohai. Hey, John. The Supreme Court cast
fresh uncertainty over President Trump's
tariffs, suggesting he may have
overstepped his authority. In nearly
3-hour hearing the court hinted it was
ready to put significant limits on
Trump's signature policy. Chief Justice
John Roberts called the tariffs an
imposition of taxes on Americans.
Meanwhile, the Trump administration
announcing it will cut 10% of air
traffic at 40 of the nation's major
airports. The plan is meant to help air
traffic controllers amid the government
shutdown and could force thousands of
flights to be canceled nationwide. The
cuts will take effect starting tomorrow.
And New York City Mayor-elect Jumaane
Williams has tapped former Federal Trade
Commission Chief Lina Khan as one of the
co-chairs of his transition team. As FTC
head under President Biden, Khan became
known for her tough approach to
antitrust cases, particularly against
tech companies. According to a
spokesperson, she will advise Williams
on economic policy and personnel. That's
your Bloomberg Brief, John. Yohai, thank
you. That's a welcome mat for global
business. Lina Khan. It's so funny. It's
like the point-counterpoint. This is
someone who business really doesn't have
fun feelings for, but a lot of people
say she's only going to stay for a short
period of time. She's not going to
actually shape anything. You know, pick
your poison. Look, I've said this a few
times. I wish them the best of luck. I
think we all hope they have the great
success, and by success, I mean I hope
this city does tremendously well, makes
lots of money, and everyone gets a whole
lot wealthier. I wish them the best.
I think a lot of companies do, too, and
that's the reason why they're willing to
work with whoever comes in, hoping that
it actually works. And let's see if they
take their advice. Up next on the
program, a global bond rush.
We're seeing a much larger theme of a
strong economy. You will see
challenges in certain companies late in
the cycle, but we are not seeing any
kind of credit cycle on the horizon
that's that's waning anytime soon. Up
next, we'll catch up with Brad Rogoff of
Barclays on the latest in the bond
market. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. Equity futures on the S&P 500.
We're the left here on the S&P up by
0.15% in the bond market. Yields up
yesterday, down this morning, just a a
bit. We're down by two basis points
across the curve on twos and tens. The
10-year bond yield this morning around
4.13. Under surveillance this morning, a
global bond rush.
We're seeing a much larger theme of a
strong economy. We're seeing an
administration that's very pro-business,
anti-reg, you know, not in very
regulatory friendly, want to push rates
lower. And so, all of those things were
you will see
challenges in certain companies late in
the cycle, but we are not seeing any
kind of credit cycle on the horizon
that's that's waning anytime soon. So,
here's the latest this morning. Global
bond sales soaring to a record high this
year as Wall Street braces for the
busiest November in a decade. Joining us
now, Brad Rogoff of Barclays. Brad, good
morning, sir. Good morning. Thanks for
>> a lot of issuance. Thanks for being
here. Let's talk about where it's coming
from. Where is that supply coming from
at the moment? Yeah, so so the so in the
past week, tech has been the the number
one in the funding of this AI
revolution. You guys talked about AI a
little bit earlier. And so, we've seen
huge deals. You've really seen net
supply actually, if you look at the
investment grade market, right, the
biggest biggest corporate bond issuance
market, actually net supply wasn't that
big until the fall. And so, September,
October, getting into November, it is
starting to pick up substantially here.
Demand's been fine. You've seen, you
know, flows into into corporate bond
funds throughout the year. So, there's
demand, but look, the market has been a
little bit softer here. Nothing
material, a little bit softer. I think
it is because of supply. You think it's
because of supply?
>> Not the broader risk environment at all.
No. I think, you know, look look what's
going on in equity markets, right? You
know, you know, a little bit here and
there, whatever. But like, when you
think about, you know, where where
equity multiples are today, and even
small moves in that, it shouldn't really
matter for investment grade corporates.
I I do think it's a little bit of
indigestion to the point where, hey, if
supply slowed down here, you probably
see some tightening in in IG credit
spreads. You keep talking about IG, but
it is more broad in terms of the
issuance. And I'm just wondering, is
this a K-shaped corporate debt market? I
feel horrible about saying that. I'm
sorry. As well as it is a K-shaped
economy and a K-shaped market in the
equity space. Yeah, well, we'll also
look I was talking about that because
that's where the supply has been so
robust recently.
But yeah, you have to look at different
fundamentals across different things.
And obviously, credit markets have been
in the news quite a bit recently with
with some stuff on the on the downside.
I think to your to your K point.
Yeah, some pests.
Yeah, so how many exterminators do we
need? So, look, I I I if we look at the
high yield market broadly, which is I
think where you would then say, okay,
yeah, what what are we finding there?
The broader trends in high yield aren't
going to tell you the credit cycle is
about to turn, right? There's the stress
ratio is not particularly high. There
are a few industries that are maybe
under a bit of pressure. They're not the
industries with the biggest amount of
debt outstanding. So, yeah, there's
maybe something a little bit different
going on that's led to some of these
issues,
these cockroaches. And we can talk about
that, but it's not across the whole high
yield market. I just heard a collective
scream from people. Let's not talk about
cockroaches. It's still pretty early in
the morning and we're having breakfast.
But I do think this is an interesting
question. John raised this earlier and
it was a really astute point that
usually the biggest risk is in the area
of the markets that are perceived as
safest. And we're talking about the
potential for problems in lower rated
credits, where people are scouring the
the playing field for some sort of
issue. Is the problem developing in the
tech issuance with concentration risk
and a larger portion of the corporate
debt market hinged to a cyclical
industry that has not faced a real test
yet? So, another another kind of old
axiom is also usually the sector that
has the greatest issuance or the
greatest increase in size in credit
markets over a period of time
is also where you often find issues. So,
if you think back to to the '15, '16,
think back to energy. We'd seen that
become a much larger portion of
corporate market, especially high yield
to high grade to some extent. There were
issues there, right? And you can think
And there's many times where we can
think back to this. So, I think you're
right to look there. But the one thing I
would say to people is if we're thinking
about the investment grade issuance that
we're seeing right now, we are looking
at companies that while they're they're
often the highest beta portion of the
equity market for obvious market cap
reasons, these are the lowest levered
companies within investment grade,
right? And so, we're not going to be
there yet on that. If I just flip really
quickly though to high yield, maybe not
even, but if you go to loans and then
really go to private credit, the tech
portion of that is by far the largest,
right? And and and that's where, once
again, not seeing the issues today, but
look, when it's gotten that big, it's
something we've got to pay attention to.
What are we exposing ourselves to
in the tech space? And I've been
thinking about that increasingly because
people draw some parallels to, say, the
shale patch or the railroads of 100
years ago or cable being laid down in
the late '90s. But this feels different
because of the tech that they're
investing in and how rapidly some of
that depreciates. What should the
approach be to this compared to what the
approach was to other big cap ex-cycles?
Yeah, so so there's positives from the
cap ex-side, right, in the sense of if
you look at who is doing a lot of the
cap ex, these big hyperscalers. And
we've done a lot of work on trying to
say, okay, go back to, you know, the
year 2000, 1999, and you look at who was
doing that and could they afford it, so
to speak. You look at their free cash
flow, their leverage, all you know, even
the cap ex-sales ratio then was, you
know, we're talking about 40% versus 25%
today. So, the companies that can afford
it are actually doing that, right? So,
that that that's certainly a positive.
The flip side is if you look at a lot of
the other tech companies out there, not
the biggest ones, there's a lot of
software companies, right, in some of
these leverage loan and in private
credit markets. And, you know, there you
get into a question of if such rapid
change is, what does that mean for the
business models? Some of them are going
to be fine. Some of them are going to,
you know, have issues for for obvious
reasons. And look, to me that's a normal
credit cycle. It doesn't get me too
worried, but it it over time will lead
to a bit more stress than we have today.
Gives you pause, makes you wonder if you
should own 50-year tech debt, which is
something we keep going back to. Yeah,
it makes you wonder how many ways you
can short this going forward, which is I
think something that people like Michael
Burry and potentially even Deutsche Bank
was looking at potentially hedging some
of their exposure to data center loans.
I just wonder how much of that activity
is picking up.
>> Your keyword, developing. Yes.
>> I think that is the keyword at the
moment because all of these guys across
the whole of corporate America
strengthened their balance sheets to
such a great degree coming out of the
pandemic that we've had people come on
for years on this program and just say,
look how strong balance sheets are. Look
how strong balance sheets are. It feels
like this is only just getting started.
I think maybe developing is the keyword.
>> A lot of people are not saying this is a
cycle it's going to end that soon. The
longer it goes on though, the more
people are feeling, I better look for
ways to hedge.
>> People are making money moving a lot of
paper over the last week. Let's put it
that way. Brad, I'm not naming names.
Brad Rogoff of Barclays. Good to see
you, sir. Coming up, Mark Lainer of
Citizens Commercial Bank, Cathie Wood of
Ark Invest, Nela Richardson of ADP, and
Nisha Patel of Parametric from New York
City. The third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance up next.
[Music]
We should not be surprised that we are
seeing volatility. We still do have a
sort of K-shaped market.
>> In the near term, caution is warranted.
>> It's early to abandon any bullish call.
We own what we own. If the market goes
down and these stocks go down, we're
going to buy more. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P positive by close to
0.2%. Similar move on the Nasdaq and on
the Russell, too. In the bond market
yesterday, yields up across the curve,
down just a touch this morning. Twos out
to 30s, we're down by two basis points
on a 10-year, 4.13.
Lots to talk about in the last 24 hours.
The economic data, conflicting economic
data, and a Supreme Court hearing in the
future of the president's tariffs.
>> If you want to be optimistic about the
economy, you take a look at the fact
that services activity does seem to be
picking up according to ISM data out
yesterday. You also can point to the ADP
report that did have an upside surprise.
Then there are questions about the
deficit. That is the bad way of
interpreting the sell-off in the bond
market, which is essentially, if the
Supreme Court does overturn the latest
iteration of tariffs from President
Trump, how much does this remove from
the US's coffers that ends up leading to
be some sort of bond market risk.
>> If you want to get depressed, just read
some of the lines we're getting, the
transcripts we're getting from the
restaurant chains in America at the
moment. Carver challenging Chipotle,
consumer slowdown. Even McDonald's
cautious. This has been a theme that's
been building now for quite a while. And
they all point to the fact that lower
income consumers have really been
struggling. I was struck by the fact
that McDonald's came out yesterday and
said that they saw double-digit declines
in lower income consumers. You pointed
this out and then in double-digit gains
among some of the higher income cohort.
It raises a question, how are these
companies managing it? And does this
speak to ongoing weakness? They also
flagged this isn't probably going to end
heading into next year. We don't get
much data right now, but we get a read
on the consumer through the earnings. In
about 2 weeks' time, you'll hear from
Target and you'll hear from Walmart.
Going to see what earnings report coming
into sharper focus after what we heard
from the restaurant business. Yeah, and
if we do see some sort of similar
reflection of that, what does the Fed do
with that? We keep coming back to this.
How do they deal with a bifurcated
consumer? The idea that we could see
acceleration in some parts of the
economy at the same time that we don't
see jobs getting created in tandem. At
the same time that with the ISM services
data, we saw inflationary pressures and
we see that with a lot of the consumer
products goods as well. Walmart has
talked about the fact that they are
going to try to absorb as much as they
can in terms of price increases, but
they can't do that forever. So, a lot of
questions. It is a soup mixed with a a
mystery mixed and wrapped in an enigma.
>> Something like that. Not a tasty one.
Anyway, fair to say we've got gridlock
on the committee of the Federal Reserve
and it's unlikely we address that
gridlock anytime soon.
>> I think it's gridlock within people. I
mean, I think that Bob Dole nailed it
when he said, "I personally feel like
I'm 5'4" because there are sort of these
conflicting crosswinds and it's not
clear that there is a clear reaction
function coming from the Fed. It is fair
to say they're in a backseat right now
rather than out front leading in any
kind of economic cycle.
>> The grand highs and lows in the equity
market, equity futures positive by 0.2%
coming up this hour. We'll catch up with
Mark Lehman of Citizens Commercial Bank
as stocks are edging higher. Cathie Wood
joins us of Ark Invest as Tesla
shareholders cast votes with Elon Musk's
future on the line and Nela Richardson
of ADP with the government shutdown
heightening economic uncertainty. We
begin this hour with stocks steadying
and tech concerns easing. Mark Lehman of
Citizens Commercial Bank writing, "AI
remains a powerful economic driver. The
fundamentals are strong and the pause
was more recalibration than concern."
Mark joins us now for more. Mark, good
morning. Good to see you. Over from the
West Coast, I'll give you the vibes on
the East Coast on Wall Street. I've had
people come on the program and say a
bubble in bubble talk. What's it like on
the West Coast? How do you talk about
the same thing? Uh I mean, we've talked
a lot about bubbles, but uh I always
think about what when you drive from SFO
into the city as many of us have done,
just look at the billboards and every
single billboard is AI. So, it does tell
you a lot about what's going on in the
economy, but but I'll
I'll be a contrarian. Um if you got a
roomful of people and asked uh Wall
Street investors and pundits if there's
a bubble, every single one of them would
raise their hand, which leads me to
believe it's a little early and it's a
little the bubble talk I I it's very
plausible, but when everybody says the
same thing, I kind of run the other way.
Would you call it a boom? I would call
it a boom. I would I've said it on this
show. I said this is the second coming.
It is. It's early. It We're going to
have some fits and starts. We talked the
same way about the pipes and plumbing
that we built in the late '90s for the
internet. Um the bubble talk was right,
but it wouldn't have gotten us Netflix
and all the other companies we talk
about in the show every day. As uh vice
chair of Citizens, how much are you
willing to put at risk in a story that
could become a bubble, but at the same
time feels like there is something real?
Uh it's a great point. We talked about
it yesterday uh with our colleagues. Um
we have a very large data center
exposure here at Citizens and we're
doing a lot of investing in those
companies both uh as a as for principal
as well as internally. Um
we're
very cautious um on everything we plan
to, but we're also part of the
innovation economy and we want to be
known for that. And and increasingly
that's becoming more of it. I've said
forever that
technology is a horizontal, it's not a
vertical here and we think that way. And
and data centers and AI and all that is
wrapped up in it and I do think it is
early, but we look at everything
specific to case by case and company by
company. How important is it to avoid a
certain degree of concentration risk to
offset that in some capacity even if you
are part of the innovation economy and
do believe is that there is an
opportunity?
It It's It's the right question. Um
concentration risk is a big thing.
We could have talked about that about
office 10 years ago and no one saw the
pandemic coming.
Uh and a lot of people are assessing
that right now with with what you're
seeing in AI and what you're seeing in
data centers. I do think that there is
an enormous uh
there's waves through that, right? You
look at the utility market and what has
to power these data centers and all the
things that help power this, but I do
think this is a revolution. This
absolutely is a revolution. What comes
with the revolution is a lot of copycats
and a lot of me toos and those are the
ones we want to avoid.
>> Mark, these companies are changing. Can
we talk about the leadership and the
management of these companies? Did they
have experience managing real estate? Do
they have experience becoming energy
companies? These are not the same
companies we invested in as the winners
of dot com. They are very, very
different and will be different in years
to come. Do you have confidence in the
management teams to manage that
effectively?
>> it is absolutely the right question. I
think there's a lot of company specific
uh
research that you have to do here and
you have to look at it as an investor as
well as what we do as a bank. Um
like you said, we could have said that
25 years ago a lot about those companies
and some of those became the biggest
unicorns we've ever seen. So, I think
it's the same, um but again, these are
spaces we've never seen before. This is
the type of computing, this is the type
of innovation that we've frankly not
seen before. So, I again, I'll go back
to it's got to be company specific and
just because you haven't sat in that
chair before,
frankly, if you've been in a chair that
looked like that, but at a company that
was akin to that, I'm not sure you'd
want to be there either and I'm not sure
I'd want you there either. I think the
people who have, you know, Elon Musk got
to the chair he got to cuz he had not
sat in that chair before because he
watched as GM, Ford, and Chrysler didn't
do anything for a very, very long time.
These are companies doing things that
frankly the incumbents that we could
talk about didn't do anything about.
Look at Intel, right? They've sat there
for 25 years while Nvidia created
itself. I think you're seeing the same
thing right now and you're seeing
incredible capital formation and we want
to be part of that. Who are the
incumbents right now that you'd worry
about?
Yeah, I I think you're you look at what
what how Microsoft has evolved. They've
done an amazing job. Facebook is
obviously doing something. Meta is doing
something that um is transformative
company. They've transformed themselves.
I mean, we don't even talk about the
metaverse anymore, but it's still their
ticker. So, you're watching these
incumbents work really hard to become
part of that. It It's an arms race and
you're seeing the kind of capital that
has been raised even in the last in the
bond market in the last 2 weeks. It's
It's stunning. But again,
we'll talk about bubbles, but I I I just
don't see it right now. I think we're
creating something that's going to be
vast and and transformative, but when
everybody thinks it's a bubble already,
I just don't get it. How important is
size right now? And I say this at a time
when everyone seems to be wanting to tie
up with one another and get bigger and
bigger and bigger. How important is it
to be big to win?
I think right now size matters. I think
um you're seeing more and more of these
partnerships because frankly, I think
some of the buyers don't even know,
right? They're They're They're mostly
buying talent um and they're and they're
trying to pair up and you see these I've
seen these wonderful interlocking charts
that are going around about how Meta and
Net Nvidia and Facebook, I'm sorry, and
Amazon and Microsoft are all competing.
We haven't even mentioned Open AI. I
think they're important because there's
so much data and there's so many things
that are going to transform. A lot of
people think about it as ChatGPT or Open
AI. It's so much more vast than that and
I think there's some optionality that
we're creating.
How much do you think that it's
important for you and your firm to also
be part of that trend? Yeah, I mean, I
I've lived in San Francisco for over 30
years. Um we've we've we've been on this
show talking about how things are um
going awry in San Francisco. Everybody's
now on these shows talking about how
things are coming back. Um
San
Citizens has a huge presence in San
Francisco. We built out a private bank
all over the country, but San Francisco
is a big hub for it. So, we want to be
known for that. We do a lot with the
innovation economy um with our small
business lending. It's some things where
companies really start and we want to be
known as a company that meets these
early companies and gets to know them
and really helps them both the
individuals and the professionals that
work there. Mark, can we just finish on
some detail? The kind of companies you
are focused on Yeah. That you're sort of
super optimistic on right now that maybe
don't get talked about enough. What are
they? Yeah, I I mean, I think there's a
lot going on in
financial services and payments that's
really changing the way we do things. We
talk about crypto all the time, but
payments is a huge opportunity for
for us. There's actually revolutions
going on in insurance because we need to
innovate as it relates to that and
there's also financial services
companies that I think are changing the
way we bank
and we want to be part of that. So, as
much I
as much as people can look at the screen
and look at what's going on and be a
little bit, you know, worried about
valuations, this is the golden age of
innovation right now. AI is powering
that, but this is the golden age of
innovation in life sciences and we're
part of that, which makes me feel real
good.
>> It's very easy to be snarky and
skeptical about it. I often think back
to a 60 Minutes interview that was done
25 plus years ago and the journalist was
sitting there laughing about how big
Amazon was and couldn't believe that
this book company was this large and had
a market
but he couldn't also understand the
potential that the book company wouldn't
be a book company in 25 years and that
it would be something else. You can't
underestimate the innovation. I remember
I mea culpa Netflix when they were
borrowing so much money and they were
junk rated and there was a question and
I was thinking, I remember when we got
DVDs in the mail and that really is
going to come into some great company
and is that really going to be a real
player later on and and here we are.
It's all my kids are talking about
>> exactly right. Netflix would not be here
if we did not build overbuild the pipes
in the late '90s. They would not be here
today. Mark, good to see you. Thanks.
Thank you, buddy. Thank you. Mark Lehman
there of Citizens Commercial Bank. Let's
give you an update on news worldwide
with your Bloomberg Brief. Here's Yohara
with more. Hey, Yohara. Hi, John.
The Trump administration saying it can
provide recipients of low-income food
assistance known as SNAP with more of
their usual benefits this month.
Officials at the Department of
Agriculture found an error in their
earlier calculations and worked to issue
new guidance. The administration is now
instructing states to provide recipients
with 65% of their usual benefits.
Meanwhile, shares of Marvell are rising
8% after SoftBank reportedly explored a
potential takeover of the the US
chipmaker earlier this year. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that
SoftBank toyed with the idea of
combining Marvell and Arm Holdings and
while there aren't currently any active
nego- negotiations on a deal, it's
possible the interest could be revived.
And ESPN has signed a multi-year deal
with gambling giants DraftKings to make
it its official betting partner. The
move ends a 10-year agreement between
ESPN owner Disney and Penn
Entertainment. Bettors will be able to
access DraftKings sports book, daily
fantasy contests, and other products
through the ESPN sites starting December
1st. That's your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Hey, Yohara. Thank you. Thank you very
much. Up next the Morning Cuppa Plus,
we'll catch up with Cathie Wood of Ark
Invest as Tesla shareholders cast votes
with Elon Musk's future on the line.
That's up next. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
There is no other person that is Elon.
We think that he is the right leader for
the company over this next decade and
delivering the plan and the
opportunities ahead of us. So, it's
about how do we create the most value
for the company and for our shareholders
over this next period of time and he he
is the right leader for us over this
next decade. That was the Tesla board
chair, Robyn Denholm, on the vote that's
taking place a little bit later. We'll
have more on that story in just a
moment. Equity futures on the S&P
positive by 0.2% on the Nasdaq 100
higher by 0.18% on the Russell up by
0.25. In the bond market, we can turn to
fixed income briefly. Bond yields
shaping up as follows. Yields down
across the curve down three on twos
likewise on tens. Your 10-year 4.13.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some more on the calls. First up, JP
Morgan raising its price target on ARM
Holdings to 180 forecasting more AI
momentum and higher value capture. Your
second call from Argus upgrading
Supermicro to a buy saying its strong
forward momentum is being overlooked.
And finally, Bernstein raising its price
target on Qualcomm to 215 citing its
fourth quarter outperformance. That
stock is still trading lower. Another
one in the last week, this market is
pushing back. We're down by 1.3%.
Sticking with tech, Tesla CEO Elon Musk
facing off against shareholders over his
$1 trillion pay package today.
Bloomberg's Craig Truta joins us now for
more. Craig, welcome to the program,
sir. What's your stake a little bit
later?
Yeah, I think all eyes are absolutely on
the vote over Musk's compensation for
obvious reasons. We've we've seen
a couple of times now that when
shareholders have been asked whether to
to award a significant amount of stock
to him, they've approved it by pretty
wide margins. So,
first in 2018 and then last year, both
of those votes came in with more than
70% approving. So, I think in addition
to the question of, you know, will it
get approved or not, it's going to be
interesting to see, you know, just as a
sort of barometer on Musk, you know,
where that vote comes in. And I think
the other you know, major proposal that
everybody's going to be watching very
closely is
a shareholder proposal on whether or not
Tesla should invest in xAI. It's not a
sure thing that Tesla will then sort of
take that vote result and and decide to
proceed with the a vote in Musk's
artificial intelligence startup, but
that definitely is is I think a focal
point for for investors. You know,
regardless of of where you come out in
terms of for or against it. Well, Craig,
do you think that people have just been
distracted by the number itself? Should
the number matter so long as the
incentives are well aligned?
Yeah, I I think it's an interesting
question. I I think you know, $1
trillion definitely sort of pops and and
yet
you know, the the sort of challenges
that Musk will have to overcome to reach
that are pretty remarkable and we we
could have said that about the package
that was laid out for him in 2018 that
to his credit he achieved, but
we're we're talking about sort of
inventing businesses that don't exist
for Tesla just yet. You know, robotics
for example, Musk has been talking an
awful lot about humanoids, but
the Optimus robot that he's showed off
is still very much at a prototype stage.
And so,
you know, we would have have to see
Tesla really just
absolutely, you know, outperform in the
years to come to reach the market cap
levels that they need to, but also
you know, on on the operation side, you
know, sort of go above and beyond even
what was achieved to to hit all of the
the numbers that were laid out for him
in 2018. Craig Truta with the latest in
London. Thank you, sir. To build on
this, the ARK Invest CEO, Cathie Wood,
one of Tesla's biggest bulls, the EV
maker the top holding in her flagship
ARK Innovation ETF has this to say, "I
do not understand why investors are
voting against Elon's pay package when
they and their clients would benefit
enormously if he and his incredible team
meet such high goals." Cathie joins us
now for more. Cathie, thanks for making
some time for us this morning. Good
morning to you all. Do you think,
Cathie, the incentives are well aligned?
Uh yes, we do. Uh
I do not believe any company anywhere
near this size
has ever delivered a compound annual
rate of growth
for EBITDA, which is a bottom line
number,
of 41% over 10 years. No company has
done that. So, yes, indeed, the
incentives are aligned. If he and his
team are able to deliver
on that number,
the stock is going to outperform
enormously. Cathie, if by chance this
proposal is rejected, would you consider
shedding some of your Tesla position?
So, I'm happy that the prediction
markets
are at 90 to 95% in terms of this is
going through. So,
we don't have to think about that.
Clearly, if Elon left,
we think about it in two ways. One, we
think robotaxis
he has them at the starting gate as of
June and now they're rolling out and
that AI project is well underway. If he
had left 5 years ago, 3 years ago, it
probably wouldn't be anywhere near where
it is.
What we now think though is in order to
capitalize on humanoid robots, which
that's a much more difficult project,
that yes, Elon's brilliance and the team
he has attracted
around him are are going to be necessary
to pull that off. Our price target,
$2,600
in 2030, is 90% of that valuation is
robotaxi. We have very little for
humanoid robots. If humanoid robots
evolve as as quickly as Elon thinks.
Now, remember that's Elon time, but he
already has a running start because
robotaxis are
robots.
They're electric. They're powered by AI.
Those are the three innovation platforms
that will power humanoid robots as well.
So, he's ahead of the game on that one
as well, but I do believe he's the right
leader to bring that part of the story
to life as well. Cathie, I've got to ask
you this though to follow up on Lisa's
question. If you wouldn't sell if he
wasn't CEO,
then why should we pay him that much to
be the CEO?
What I'm saying is we would feel
comfortable with the robot robotaxi part
of the model, but we would not be able
to build with confidence the humanoid
robot part of the model. So, over time,
of course, as the as the story would
depend more and more on that leg of the
story, we would be taking our position
down. You talked earlier, Cathie, the
past couple of days about this reality
check that's going on in the tech
sector. And I I understand that Tesla is
sort of in its own place and that you do
hold them for the long term. How do you
understand the reality check that's
currently going on within a lot of the
biggest tech stocks and the sense of
skepticism about whether they can keep
growing at that rate versus the
long-term bullish bet?
You know, I'm really happy that there is
so much skepticism out there. Anyone who
went through the late '90s
will remember there was no skepticism
and we had valuations based on the
number of eyeballs on a website maybe 10
years
from then.
We're not seeing that right now. We are
seeing, wait a minute, they're spending
a lot of money on these data centers.
This is a little bit of a different
story than I was investing in certainly
in terms of when I say I, the the
average investor was investing in
with the mag six. Those were just cash
cows and
and had huge cash positions.
Something's changing here. It's making
the the typical investor
a little more I'll say skeptical.
They're this is not just the cash
register ringing anymore. This is, wait,
a big bet on the future. So, I'm happy
there's skepticism. I think it's a good
thing. Are you buying right now? Are you
seeing the skepticism as a chance to
build some of your portfolio?
Oh, sure.
You know, and probably the most
undervalued
part of our portfolios is in life
sciences health care because we think
that is going to present the most
profound application
of AI out there. And yet it is highly
underappreciated because, you know,
health care analysts aren't comfortable
with tech and tech analysts aren't
comfortable with health health care. And
you know, we've got a very siloed
ecosystem in terms of the way research
is done. At ARK, we're very focused on
the technologies first and how they're
going to scale across sectors. So, our
analysts are organized by technology.
And we think there's a huge inefficiency
there. Cathie, thanks for being so
generous with your time this morning. We
appreciate it. Cathie Wood there, the
ARK Invest CEO, on Elon Musk of Tesla
and a whole lot more. We talked about
this with Craig. If the $1 trillion
number has become a bit of a
distraction, so long as the incentives
of one aligned is a number of problem. I
guess that's one debate. Here's another
one though, Lisa. Can a company this big
have this much key man risk? And I think
that's a very separate one to ask.
>> Yeah, is it a feature is it a bug? And
ultimately in the mind of uh Cathy Wood,
she was saying it's a feature. He's
brilliant. He can do all these things
that he's promising. And if he's aligned
to this idea that he's going to create a
sevenfold increase in revenues and
doubling in the car sales, that's a
positive for the overall company. On the
flip side, what if there is some sort of
big falling out with President Trump?
What if there is some sort of personal
fissure? What if there is a health
problem? I mean, there are so many
issues that get built up if someone is
really the face and the end all be all
of a company.
>> It's hard to get away from that T. Yeah.
Isn't it? 1 trillion is just huge. Why
does he want it so bad? I mean, it's
like he's going to take it so personally
he would leave the company if he doesn't
get a trillion dollars. He's already,
you know, the world's richest man. I
just What what is it? What's he going to
do with a trillion dollars?
>> It's difficult to internalize a number
that large.
>> Build a colony on Mars. Kind of crazy.
Maybe. Yeah. Maybe.
>> Would you go?
No. No, I wouldn't. I'm I'm happy on
Earth. I'm sort of happy here for now,
Ramo. That's good. That's good.
>> I'm waiting for that I'm waiting for
that Alphabet 50-year bottoms of the
show. Yeah, we'll be sitting here a good
while. Be right here anchoring this show
like every every day. Yeah. Up next,
Nela Richardson of ADP.
[Music]
Session highs in the equity market going
into the open about about 60 minutes
from now on the S&P 500 higher by a
quarter of 1% on the Nasdaq 100 higher
by similar amount. Same story on the
Russell. Your small caps this morning up
by close to a third. In the bond market,
two-year, 10-year, and 30-year bond
yields down through most of the session
down three or four basis points now at
the front end of the curve. 359.45 on
twos, 412 on 10s. As we count you down
to the opening bell, let's get you some
single names, some morning movers. Let's
cross over to Hira for more. Hey, Hira.
Hi John. A leadership shakeup and very
weak results are hitting CarMax this
morning. Shares are down 10 and 1/2% The
used car retailer terminated CEO William
Nash after the stock halved this year
under his leadership. Meanwhile, they
released preliminary third quarter
results and they were not good showing
that used car sales fell sharply after
stores marking the largest decline in
two years showing that the company has
not been able to capitalize on the
strength of the used car market amid
tariffs. Meanwhile, also moving to the
downside, we have Papa John's. Those
shares down 3.8% after comparable sales
unexpectedly fell when analysts were
expecting a rise. That prompted the
pizza chain to cut its outlook in yet
another sign that consumers are pulling
back and dining out or ordering in is
where it's showing up. And we end on a
big mover to the upside and that is
Snap. Shares are up nearly 20% heading
into the open on a new $400 partnership
with Perplexity AI that will see
Perplexity pay Snap to bring its AI
search engine to Snapchat. It also came
as Snap results showed solid user
growth. All of this giving new life to a
stock that had been down 30% this year,
John. Huge rally. Yeah, Hira, thank you.
Appreciate it. Let's turn to the labor
market. The US companies announcing the
most job cuts for any October in more
than two decades. The data looking
dreadful this morning. Mike McKee has
more. Mike, give us some perspective on
this data.
Well, that's a way to look at it, John,
because this is the time of day 8:30 on
a Thursday when I normally be giving you
the jobless claims numbers. And of
course, we're not getting that from the
Department of Labor, but we have been
getting them from the state levels and
they're nowhere near what Challenger is
telling us. Challenger says that it this
October it saw the most job cut
announcements since 2003.
They're also saying seasonal hiring
plans are the lowest since 2012 when
they started tracking that data. But
again, these are announcements that are
not actual cuts and even people who have
lost their jobs probably getting
severance, not eligible for jobless
claims yet. So, we have to see if this
carries through.
Uh the Fed continues to be in a fog
because they've got this kind of uh
anecdotal data and they've also got some
uh numbers like the ISMs we got this
week and the ADP report. The state
jobless claims numbers, as I said,
remain low. We'll have those for you
tomorrow morning when the state numbers
are reported. ADP, 42,000 new jobs in
October, not great, but not uh falling
down below zero. Uh the ISM, as I
mentioned, contracting. So, where does
that leave us?
It leaves us with a lot of people
wondering what to do on December 10th
and that's the key. We have a lot of Fed
speak today. Uh we have Williams, Barr,
Hammock, Waller, Paulson, and Musalem
all speaking. Some of them will not be
talking about the economy. Some of them
will. Keep an eye out for any headlines,
but at this point, it's that bottom date
that really matters. We're still a long
way from the Fed meeting and there's a
good chance maybe we get the government
open again, we get some data, and we'll
see how all of this fits together once
we see what the government has been able
to count as far as jobs and of course,
inflation. It's going to take a lot of
data to settle that debate at the
Federal Reserve. Mike McKee, thank you.
Just imagine how it goes. Governor
Mester gets those Challenger job cuts
and throws them across the table, then
Beth Hammock picks up state jobless
claims and throws them back at them and
you just go back and forth, back and
forth with all the conflicting data.
>> Pretty soon you've got a full-on
full-blown food fight over there at the
FOMC. Makes it sound very interesting.
>> saying Hammock and Mester fight at the
committee meetings. I'm sure it's super,
super boring. Yeah, throwing booklets at
each other? Absolutely not. Take a look
at this. What about the Beige Book?
Look, honestly, they're looking at a lot
of conflicting data. And so, how do they
reconcile that? Even if you have more
data, is it really going to have
anything other than that conflicting
tone? Because there are many stories
being told at the same time from
different sectors, different cohorts,
and that's what we're seeing in the data
that we are getting. Nela Richardson is
not a fighter. She's got this to say
over at ADP. Economic uncertainty for
consumers and businesses has been
heightened by the shutdown.
Historically, incertitude has had the
effect of delaying hiring, investment,
and purchase of big ticket items. Nela
joins us now for more. Nela, good
morning. Was that an accurate
description of a FOMC meeting? I hope
so. I would love the visual itself. I
hope they are that passionate about the
conflicting data. I know I am. Are we
seeing some stabilization finally on a
serious note? Yeah, I think we are.
Going into the numbers that we put out
in September when we saw that big job
loss, the question was when you looked
at the GDP in the second quarter, which
was strong, was this a trough? I think
you might have asked that question,
Lisa. And so, going out of this last few
weeks, we've seen that it looks like it
was a short-lived negative impact on the
payrolls and we're seeing a a recovery,
but it's tepid. It's slow. It's weaker
than what we saw in terms of hiring
momentum earlier this year. So, cautious
optimism, a bit of a rebound, but not a
full-blown
restoration of robust job gains. So,
does what you're seeing What does what
you're seeing completely contradict the
tone of the Challenger data that we got
out this morning? Well, it's all about
timing, right? This is a fast-moving,
very complex labor market and we've seen
some big headline announcements. Now,
these big companies um don't drive all
the hiring in the US. In fact, big
companies are only accounting for a
quarter of employment in the US or less.
So, it's really small firms that you we
need to pay more attention to because
most US workers work for small firms.
That being said, announcements
eventually trickle into the labor market
as cuts, whether through attrition or
through outright layoffs. We're not
seeing it yet, but it's an early warning
signal. Where is the hiring coming from?
We saw the services sector also still in
contraction for the employment sector.
We saw the same thing for manufacturing.
Where is it actually coming from? Well,
we're seeing in trade, transportation,
and utilities. That's great. And health
care. Health care is now the new
stalwart. It is strong because it is
acyclical. It is not affected by
interest rates. It's affected by this
long moving trend that no policy can
change. Father time. We are getting
older and this aging population is going
to require health care. And you're
seeing that as a job gainer in the data
and I think that will be consistent
going forward. Where we're not seeing
it, at least we didn't see it at ADP in
October, is in leisure and hospitality.
And that's what I'm worried about
because this labor market, this economy
has been fueled by consumer resilience
and they're not as resilient resilience
at least in the hiring numbers in that
sector as they have been previously.
That's a concern. Nela, when you track
the forces in the labor market right
now, how influential are the cyclical
forces versus the structural forces? Is
one greater than the other at the
moment? Let's go back to that data food
fight.
>> Sure. That's really at the heart of the
argument. We don't know how much of
these drivers are structural and they're
they are profound like aging, like
immigration, like AI, um and how much of
this is cyclical, the uncertainty of
hiring, the hiring hesitancy. We're
going to be tracking seasonal hiring
going into the holidays. Some of that is
going to be structural. Some of it is
going to be cyclical and that is the
contention here because there's no easy
way to divide those two big drivers.
This goes to Lisa's question. She's
asked it repeatedly. If it's the case
that it's more structural than cyclical,
what difference do interest rate
reductions actually make?
Well, that's a profound question. We're
in the the muddled middle and that's
that's the issue. Um if you are looking
at a world where inflation is at least
going to be episodically higher because
of these labor market trends, we have
fewer workers coming in, um fewer ways
of uh providing output for an
increasingly elderly economy, that is
inflationary. Regardless of what happens
in the FOMC this year, there are
inflationary drivers. So, yes, the Fed
has to be short-term in its thinking. It
has to really adjust to the incoming
data when there is incoming data, but
these long-term structural effects are
going to affect labor markets going
forward. You've really seen a boom in
interest recently for ADP data.
Everyone's very excited. We have ADP
Wednesday now. And it was celebrated
>> ADP Wednesday for me.
>> There you go. And we were getting
estimates and we'll soon have an ADP
whisper number on the street because we
have nothing else. And I'm just
wondering if we were getting the other
data, based on your experience tracking
the labor market, do you think that it
would change the muddle middle? Or do
you think that we're in the same place
where ultimately it just comes down to
ideology on the Federal Reserve, what
you believe the emphasis should be?
I think the labor data is pretty
consistent. It's showing this low higher
no fire kind of equilibrium. I don't
think that's good for the US economy. I
think this economy is built on dynamism.
Dynamism fuels innovation, which fuels
productivity, which fuels growth. So,
I'm worried about that in the long term.
The labor market stats have been kind of
lining up pretty well.
What's weird to me is the difference
between the GDP growth numbers and the
labor market. That's the disconnect that
I'm seeing and I'm wondering how
sustainable that is. To put it another
way, this is what everyone keeps talking
about, that we're seeing a
re-acceleration in the economy that's
jobless. It somehow is not coming along
with massive job creation. Some people
say this is a positive sign. This points
to increasing productivity, can be
disinflationary, and going forward can
be a huge boom for the United States.
You look skeptical. I'm just wondering
what do you think is actually going on?
You know what? I I just remember that
2/3 of this is economy is consumer
spending.
It's not in the market. It's not on Wall
Street. It's not in the Magnificent
Seven. It's mom-and-pop stores and
mom-and-pops buying stuff. And the labor
market supports 2/3 of this economy. So,
you you can't disconnect the consumer,
the real economy, the Main Street macro
from the actual overview of the economy.
AI is going to be a huge game-changer in
the workplace, but it's not a huge
game-changer yet to the people who are
just making a living and getting a
paycheck and spending those dollars.
Just for the record, it was always ADP
Wednesday for me as well, Nela. Thank
you. I was right there with you.
>> Jonathan.
Nela Richardson of ADP, thank you. It's
going to be weekly ADP soon. That's
going to be exciting. It'll be weekly
ADP. You're going to do the drum beat up
to That's no payrolls data. No,
honestly, it is the data. It is the
benchmark right now. And a lot of people
have looked back and said it actually
has been incredibly consistent in terms
of what it shows. Just want to say
I'm calling you out. It was not ADP
Wednesday for you.
>> always excited about it.
>> come in every single day and say this is
ADP Wednesday.
>> knows how excited I was every single
time. Okay. Nela Richardson of ADP. Nela
Richardson of ADP, Nela, thank you.
Thank you, Jonathan. Throw a booklet at
you. All about it. You Always been all
about it. We're going to be throwing
pamphlets of data at each other. Yeah. I
think they don't find the FOMC. They
talk a lot though. Williams, Barr,
Hammock, Waller, Goolsbee, Paulson,
Mester, Williams, Jefferson, Myron just
the next 2 days. Enjoy yourself, guys.
All right, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara with
more. Hi, Yahara. Hi, John. Nvidia CEO
Jensen Huang says China is going to win
the AI race. In an interview with the
Financial Times, Huang cited Beijing's
lower energy costs and looser
regulations. His remarks come after
President Trump maintained a ban on
Nvidia selling its most advanced chips
to Chinese customers.
Meanwhile, Apple is set to be nearing a
deal with Google to overhaul its Siri
voice assistant. Sources telling us here
at Bloomberg the companies are
finalizing an agreement that would see
Apple pay roughly $1 billion a year for
access to Google's technology. The
iPhone maker is hoping to rebuild Siri's
underlying tech and roll out a slate of
new features next year.
And Peloton is recalling more than
830,000 of its exercise bikes over
safety concerns. The Consumer Product
Safety Commission saying the bike seats
can break during use, posing a hazard to
riders. Consumers are being told to stop
using the bikes immediately and contact
Peloton for a free repair. Maybe a new
bike? That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yeah, you'd think. Yahara, thank you.
Just kind of gives you the shivers that,
doesn't it?
>> the the visual's not So, let's let's
I know that's classless, guys. So,
absolutely not. Up next, setting you up
for the day ahead, plus Nela Richardson
of Parametric as traders look to boost
bets on rate cuts. From New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
There's something going on in the labor
market. Things are moving uh in a way
and yet you can't really put your finger
on is this change happening in real
time? Is this going to settle out? Those
crosscurrents of information and data
are making it a tough job for the FOMC.
That's why it makes it a difficult time
for this committee to reconcile views is
because that uncertainty looks like it
is going to persist for some time. That
is the epicenter of the divide right now
on the FOMC. That was the former Kansas
City Fed President Esther George. Is the
weakness, so-called weakness we're
seeing in the labor market, cyclical or
structural? Is it things like
immigration, AI, or is it just the
economy starting to roll over? And we
can't settle that debate. Much harder to
settle that debate without data. But to
your point, Lisa, even when you have it,
we're not settling that debate.
>> of depends on the sector. It depends on
the age cohort. It depends on the income
level. It depends on the specific
company. There's so many different
crosswinds that it's so hard to get a
handle on, let alone come up with some
sort of cohesive policy.
>> Which is why we've got gridlock on the
FOMC at the moment coming into that
December meeting on December 10th, about
6 weeks away. In the equity market at
the moment as we count you down to that
opening bell, about 43 minutes away.
Equity futures positive by 0.2% on the
S&P, on the Nasdaq up by 0.2% also.
Similar move on the Russell this
morning. As we count you down to the
opening bell, your trading diary looks
like this for the rest of the week and
into next. 10:00 a.m. Eastern time,
President Donald Trump making an
announcement, so look out for that. Also
today, a slew of Fed speak, plus R&B,
Airbnb earnings after the close at 6:00
p.m. Eastern time, a Tesla shareholder
meeting, and on Friday going into the
weekend, UMich consumer sentiment. And
that is all we've got going into the
weekend. So, I know that you're going to
trade on it. And actually, tomorrow
you're going to come in and say
>> I'm staying late at work here. Yeah,
you're going to say it's University of
Michigan Friday. UMich Friday. UMich
Friday. I think that's right there with
the ADP Wednesday. I'm right there with
you, UMich Friday and ADP Wednesday. Oh,
is that the case? Are you Yeah, you you
Regular viewers of this program know
that I'm super into ADP and UMich.
>> Yeah, you mean you're just talking about
UMich. And going on cruises.
And going on cruises. Disney cruises.
Yeah. Yeah, big time. The bigger the the
better. I can't The cruise line.
Honestly, you I kind of see has Jonathan
Ferro written When I knew that
when I knew that ship was launching, I
was like, you know, saving my money on
the weekends just getting ready to go on
Icon of the Seas. I couldn't wait.
>> You know, I have seen you on that water
slide. Yeah. Just wee! Just buzzing. You
know me.
Just love it. All right. All right.
Let's turn back to markets. Bond yields
falling.
Just never going to happen on rate cuts
after data showed US companies announced
the most job cuts for any October in
more than two decades. Nela Richardson
of Parametric joins us now for more.
Nela, good morning. Not going to talk
about cruises. I hate them. I didn't
take you for the cruise type, Jonathan.
Just saying.
>> not that kind of guy. You know me well
enough. Let's talk about this bond
market. The data, is it weaker or is it
okay? Is it stable? ISM services
yesterday was great. Challenger job cuts
today, terrible. Which one is it?
Depends on what day you ask me, right? I
mean, it's been it's been very noisy. I
think generally for the most part it
looks like it's holding up fairly well.
But I think where this could turn is
once the data comes back online if you
start having the actual data that the
Fed is focused on showing weakness, I
mean, then we've already crossed over
that territory. It's perhaps that we
just don't know yet.
Um and and that's primarily what the Fed
is focused on, right? I think Chairman
Powell has has more or less reiterated
3% inflation is now the 2%, but it's
transitory. And then at what point does
a very weak labor market start become
disinflationary, right? That is what
they're most concerned about. Can we see
a re-acceleration in the economy without
jobs? I mean, this is really the
fundamental question as we talk about
Fed policy and the potential for a
re-acceleration in GDP as we were just
talking about with Nela Richardson at
the same time that we're not seeing job
creation. Is that sort of the soft
landing that people are talking about,
or is this an anomaly that means the
data is not right? Yeah, I mean, look,
the soft landing can happen where Look,
right now, I think the guest before
exactly mentioned like we're in this
very slow hiring no firing. And perhaps
the AI productivity gains, right, that
you're seeing at the company level is
contributing to that. But if at some
point you do start to see companies
increasing that layoff, right? There
becomes that thin line of okay, we can
we can not hire as much. We have great
productivity, great net net, wages stay
the same,
earnings stay strong. But if they do
start increasing the pace of layoffs
you have a direct impact on consumer
spending, right? Therefore, it's hard to
see kind of how you can keep this
momentum going, meaning that you hit hit
a dip, and then perhaps if there is
maybe more of a sustained uh corporate
level strength and earning. Again, you
back or back to no hiring, not as much
as a layoffs.
Maybe you start to see a little bit of
that come back. And then more
importantly, look, tariffs is still in
the background here, right? Is this
really transitory? So, I think that's
another element here that in terms of
inflation
and the impact that that has. I thought
you thought the tariffs might be
transitory. Because that also might be
the case.
>> also could be the case. Exactly. So,
don't tell me all of this muddle into
the bond market. How do you get
conviction to say I want to lock in
yields here when you can have five
people in a room and 25 different
opinions on exactly what the macro is
going to look like. So, what we've been
telling our investors is
a few things. I think real yields are
are attractive, right? If you take a
look at real yields today, they are
attractive. You don't have to go down
significantly in credit quality today.
And look, you don't have to take on a
lot of duration, right? I think the
story here is about the income
component. So, you're not betting on
rates falling, the economy falling over.
We don't want that to happen. But, if
we're in the sustained environment where
10-year yields are roughly in the 4%
range, this is a good opportunity to add
income at a time where reinvestment risk
of sitting in cash is increasing, right?
If the Fed continues to ease.
And at a time where,
you know, maybe let's face it, the risk
on trade has been very strong, very
long.
Investors could be slightly under
balanced right on the fixed income side
and you have a way to diversify
portfolios without giving up meaningful
return potential. Let's talk about
finances at the federal level and then
we'll get to the state level in just a
moment. At the federal level, what
happens to treasuries if the Supreme
Court comes out and says no, no, you
can't do this anymore and they can't
raise money from tariffs in quite the
same way, with the same tools? Yeah.
Look, I think in in that case, you have
tariffs were being banked on as a
revenue source, right? So, now you have
I think the reemergence, I guess, of
debts and deficit concerns. That's
always been there in the background. But
now they're like, wait a minute, we're
supposed to get all this revenue at the
federal level, right? Supposedly from
tariffs. And now all of a sudden we're
seeing we can't see a lot of that. That
reemerges as a concern, I think, at the
federal level on the debt and deficit.
So, you could see a further steepener,
you could see more of that term premium
being built in.
Um, and I think that's very likely to
happen, right? I think that's kind of
been brought down a little bit cuz that
hasn't been on the forefront. At the
state level,
at the state level, you have a few
things happening here. Now, the good
news is at the state level, most city
levels, they have to balance their
budget, right? You can't run it into
deficits like you can at the federal
level. So, that's a great news. So,
meaning you can also you can't debt
finance, either.
Deficit finance. So, you have to make
kind of your your expenses and revenues
work. Now, states are also facing
similar impact.
Government shutdown, I would say, is
limited impact. That's very
sector-based, very regional.
But for entities that are running on a
very limited reserve level
and you don't have federal funds coming
in, that is going to be a direct fiscal
impact. And then secondarily, Medicaid
funding, right? Trillion dollars of the
next 10 years, that is reduced at the
state level, which states will have to
manage for. Good news is, I think states
are in a good place.
You can argue in many ways than the
federal government in terms of the
balanced budgets that they have
going forward.
>> take phone calls about New York this
week? Oh, yes. What do you say back to
people who are worried? Yes. So, I think
what you want to remember about most
large
cities and states, I mentioned they have
to balance their budgets.
So, there's a lot of legal and fiscal
discipline framework in cities like New
York that's in place.
So, if you think about their budget, New
York City has to release a four-year
budget
going out in advance.
If there's any major deviation, right?
That kicks in a fiscal control board
that was created back in the in the
'70s.
The debt issuance is also capped. So,
where it's like, we'll issue a lot of
debt, we'll pay for it via debt, there's
a
cap of 10% based off of five-year
property value level.
Very manageable. So, my my answer is
there's tremendous amount of strength.
New York City has seen a lot. If you
just look at it from an economic
perspective, right? 9/11, and global
financial crisis, COVID. They have been
very resilient. The city's been very
resilient, right? You've seen no change
in their ratings
and and their kind of fiscal discipline.
So, Yeah.
you know, you will have policy regimes
change, shifts come in place.
But we're telling our clients
not much of a concern. And if spreads
widen out, it's a good buying
opportunity.
>> some of those politicians on the icon of
the season. Yeah, very Wishing the best.
Nisha, thank you.
>> With you. No, thank you. Nisha Batra of
Parametric. Nisha, thank you. Appreciate
it. Thank you. Coming up tomorrow,
Jeffrey Yu of BNY, Brian Gardner of
State Street, Michelle Weaver, and Nadia
Lovell from New York City this morning.
Good morning. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
Day five at the WTA Finals in Riyadh.
Amanda Anisimova fought back from a set
down against Iga Swiatek to book her
place in the final four. The American
fired 30 winners on her way to closing
it out 6-2 in the decider.
Earlier, Elena Rybakina kept her perfect
record intact as she took out alternate
Ekaterina Alexandrova in straight sets.
The victory was Rybakina's 10th top 10
win in 2025.